Applying for a Ph.D. at 
Trinity College Dublin, 
the University of Dublin
Our Faculties and Schools webpage www.tcd.ie/structure/ will provide you with quick links to each of the 
schools at Trinity. 
MAKE CONTACT WITH 
YOUR POTENTIAL 
ACADEMIC 
SUPERVISOR
Contact your potential academic supervisor with a brief 
research proposal or idea – remember that this is a 
competitive process so your email should demonstrate 
your interest in the research area and any relevant 
experience that you have to date. It is recommended that 
you identify a small number of staff with interests that 
relate to your own.
If the academic staff member is willing to support your 
application for a Ph.D. position, he/she will direct you to 
the school’s online application page. Please note that some 
schools at Trinity have specific guidelines for applying 
for a Ph.D. position, it is important to check the schools 
webpage for any additional information. 
FIND A POTENTIAL 
ACADEMIC 
SUPERVISOR
Global Relations website: www.tcd.ie/study/international/scholarships/Postgraduate/
Trinity Research: www.tcd.ie/research/	
Find out more about Trinity’s Faculties and Schools: www.tcd.ie/structure/
As Ireland’s leading university for research there are 
ample opportunities for postgraduate research. First, you 
should explore Trinity's research areas and determine 
your subject area of interest. The next step is to make 
contact with academic staff in relevant fields and identify 
a potential supervisor. To assist you with both steps, the 
Trinity website is comprehensive and features all relevant 
information about our research activities, as well as full 
research profiles of our staff. 
Once you find an academic willing to supervise your 
research, they will be best placed to advise you of relevant 
funding opportunities through Irish and European funding 
agencies. Additionally, you may also:
– Research other possibilities, including the:
Global Relations website: www.tcd.ie/study/international/
scholarships/Postgraduate/
Graduate studies webpage: www.tcd.ie/Graduate_Studies/
students/funding/
EXPLORE 
FUNDING
OPPORTUNITIES 
– Contact the Regional Officer for your country, or the
Global Officer, in a relevant school, for information on other
opportunities. Details of these staff can be found on the
Global Relations Webpage: www.tcd.ie/globalrelations/
international-non-eu/connectwithus.
– Contact scholarship awarding bodies in your home
country for possible Ph.D. funding options.
Trinity is the first and only Irish university to 
join the prestigious ranks of the League of 
European Research Universities (LERU)
GR-FLY-PHD-09-19