China Scholarship Council (CSC) - Trinity 
College Dublin Joint Scholarship 
Programme: Guidance Document for 
Student Applicants 
 
December 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please 
contact 
the 
Trinity 
Global 
Scholarships 
Team 
with 
any 
questions 
at 
global.scholarships@tcd.ie  
 
 
PhD Programme 
Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin and the China Scholarship Council (CSC) affiliated with 
the Ministry of Education in China provide a joint scholarship programme for Chinese students to 
pursue a PhD at Trinity. The programme is known as the “CSC-Trinity College Dublin Joint Scholarship 
Programme”. 
 
Eligibility  
Please make sure to review the CSC website for the latest updates www.csc.edu.cn/ 
1. Applicants must be citizens and permanent residents of the People’s Republic of China at the 
time of application (excluding Macau, Hong Kong, and Taiwan). Chinese students studying 
overseas may be eligible for application subject to the CSC policy at the time. 
2. Applicants must be enrolled in a full-time master's degree at a university in China. Bachelor’s 
degree students who are in their last year wishing to pursue master-doctor combined 
programme can also apply if they have an unconditional offer letter/letter of invitation 
combining master and doctoral study. 
3. For overseas Chinese students applying for full PhD study, only those who are in the last year 
of their master studies, recent graduates (less than one year), and those who are in the first 
year of their PhD studies. Overseas Chinese students are required to be nominated by the 
Education Section of the Chinese Embassy in Ireland after they have completed their Trinity 
application. 
4. Those who work as an employee at a higher education institution, scientific research 
institution, or an administrative organisation or enterprise in China, and have earned a 
masters-level degree are eligible. 
5. Successful students must return to China upon completion of their studies or research. 
6. Applicants must hold an unconditional offer letter from Trinity College Dublin. They must 
therefore fulfil the relevant academic entry requirement set by Trinity, including a high level 
of English language proficiency. Conditional offer letters may be accepted in certain 
circumstances, but these offers may not be conditional on English language scores. 
7. Applicants should satisfy the selection criteria set out by the CSC. This policy is subject to 
change and is at the discretion of the CSC. 
 
Application process  
1. Student applicants apply for admission to a PhD in Trinity: 
Explore Trinity’s research areas and determine your subject area of interest.  
• 
Trinity Research: www.tcd.ie/research   
• 
Find out more about Trinity’s Research Themes: www.tcd.ie/research/themes   
• 
Find out more about Trinity’s Faculties and Schools: www.tcd.ie/structure  
The next step is to identify a potential supervisor. The Trinity website is comprehensive and 
features all relevant information about our research activities, as well as full research profiles 
of our staff.  
• 
Search for expertise: www.tcd.ie/research/people   
• 
School webpages: www.tcd.ie/courses/postgraduate/research/az.php    
Contact your potential academic supervisor with a brief research proposal or idea – remember 
that this is a competitive process, so your email should demonstrate your interest in the 
research area and any relevant experience that you have to date. It is recommended that you 
identify a small number of staff with interests that relate to your own. If the academic staff 
member is willing to support your application for a PhD position, he/she will direct you to the 
School’s online PhD application page.  
2. Academic Supervisor / PI applies to Trinity for the CSC-TCD Joint Scholarship  
Once the applicant is in possession of an unconditional offer, the PI can apply for the CSC 
scholarship in Trinity on behalf of the student. 
Please note that conditional offers are accepted by CSC if they are based on academic 
requirements; conditional offers based on English are not allowed by CSC. Students must 
fulfil Trinity’s English language requirements. 
 Applications should include the following documentation:   
• 
Cover  
• 
Project proposal (max 2 pages) 
• 
Brief biography of the supervisor (max 1 page) 
• 
A statement linking the proposed research to the research strategy of the School in 
which the student will be registered (max 1 page). 
 
Deadline for applications is 14 February 2025.  
The Trinity selection panel will then review all applications and create a shortlist of candidates 
who will be invited to apply to the CSC for the scholarship.  
Candidates who have been shortlisted by Trinity will be issued a letter that can be submitted 
for the CSC part of the application. Successfully shortlisted candidates will be notified by their 
supervisor in mid-March.   
At this point, candidates should also contact their home institution's international office (or 
local embassy in the event they are not in China) to advise of their intention to apply for the 
CSC scholarship and follow any application procedures. 
 
3. Shortlisted candidates apply directly to the CSC for the CSC-TCD Joint Scholarship 
Between mid-March and early April, shortlisted candidates must apply for the scholarship 
online to the CSC http://apply.csc.edu.cn. Students should check actual dates on the CSC 
website as these can vary from year to year. 
The CSC will evaluate the candidates according to CSC requirements and priorities. Once the 
awardees are selected, the CSC will inform the successful applicants and provide Trinity with 
a final list of recipients (usually in June). 
  
Tips for a successful application  
• 
Students should be aware that the CSC application is a crucial part of the CSC evaluation, so 
plenty of time and focus should be given to the application.  
• 
Priority is given to innovative research. 
• 
The CSC considers the following when awarding scholarships: 
o Comprehensive competence of the applicants, including their previous study record, 
research experiences and academic capacity, as well as prospects and plan for their 
career in future. 
o Scientific research quality and international recognition of the proposed research 
subject in the host institution. 
o Research quality and dynamic of the host supervisor in recent years. 
o Significance, design and feasibility of the proposed research plan abroad 
o Recommendations from the home institution.