China Scholarship Council (CSC) - Trinity 
College Dublin Joint Scholarship 
Programme: Guidance Document for 
Schools 
 
December 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please contact global.scholarships@tcd.ie with questions or queries. 
 
 
Overview  
Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin and the China Scholarship Council (CSC) affiliated with 
the Ministry of Education in China signed an agreement in 2016 to provide up to 10 annual 
scholarships for Chinese students to pursue a PhD at Trinity. The programme is known as the “CSC-
Trinity College Dublin Joint Scholarship Programme”. 
In December 2019, Trinity and CSC agreed to renew and extend the programme. An addendum was 
signed by both parties in 2022 agreeing to further extend the programme to 2026.  
In the academic year 2025/26 up to 13 scholarships will be provided – three per each Faculty and a 
possible additional four allocated to the E3 business plan.   
Programme 
The primary focus of this programme is for selected Chinese students to undertake a PhD at Trinity.  
Eligibility 
1. Candidates must be citizens and permanent residents of the People’s Republic of China at the 
time of application (excluding Macau, Hong Kong, and Taiwan). Chinese students studying 
overseas may be eligible for application subject to the CSC policy at the time. 
2. Candidates must be enrolled in a full-time master's degree at a university in China. Bachelor’s 
degree students who are in their last year wishing to pursue master-doctor combined 
programme can also apply if they have an unconditional offer letter/letter of invitation 
combining master and doctoral study. 
3. For overseas Chinese students applying for full PhD study, only those who are in the last year 
of their master studies, recent graduates (less than one year), and those who are in the first 
year of their PhD studies are eligible to apply for the scholarship programme. Overseas 
Chinese students are required to be nominated by the Education Section of the Chinese 
Embassy in Ireland after they have completed their Trinity application. 
4. Those who work as an employee at a higher education institution, scientific research 
institution, or an administrative organisation or enterprise in China, and have earned a 
Master-level degree are eligible. 
5. Successful students must return to China upon completion of their studies or research. 
6. Candidates must hold an unconditional offer letter from Trinity College Dublin. They must 
therefore fulfil the relevant academic entry requirement set by Trinity, including a high level 
of English language proficiency. Conditional offer letters may be accepted in certain 
circumstances, but these offers may not be conditional on English language scores. 
7. Candidates should satisfy the selection criteria set out by the CSC. This policy is subject to 
change and is at the discretion of the CSC. 
Application process for full PhD students 
1. Candidates apply for admission to a PhD in Trinity. Candidates must liaise directly with their 
potential supervisor / PI for admission and the PI should guide the students through the Trinity 
PhD application process. PIs should work with the candidate and AR to ensure that the student 
has an offer before the application deadline of 14 February 2025.  
Please note that conditional offers are accepted by CSC if they are based on academic 
requirements. Conditional offers based on English are not allowed by CSC. Candidates must 
fulfil Trinity’s English language requirements. 
We also advise that any PI interested in supporting an application should meet with the 
student online to ensure their English language competency is sufficient for the 
requirements of their proposed research. 
2. Candidates should contact their home institution's international office (or local embassy in 
the event they are not in China) to advise of their intention to apply for the CSC scholarship 
and follow any application procedures. 
3. Once the candidate is in possession of an offer, the PI can apply for the scholarship in Trinity 
on behalf of the student. 
Applications should be sent to global.scholarships@tcd.ie with the subject ‘CSC 
Application’. Closing date for applications is Friday 14 February 2025.  
Applications should include: 
• 
Cover – please see Appendix 1 
• 
Project proposal (max 2 pages) 
• 
Brief biography of the supervisor (max 1 page) 
• 
A statement linking the proposed research to the research strategy of the School in 
which the student will be registered (max 1 page). 
Selection process for full PhD students 
1. Trinity Global will facilitate the process.  Faculty Deans (the panel) will review all applications 
and agree a shortlist of candidates to put forward to the CSC for review and assessment before 
14 March 2025. 
2. Once the candidates have been selected, Trinity Global will arrange for Academic Registry to 
issue special offer letters to applicants, to include the following wording:  
This offer is contingent on your securing suitable funding from the China Scholarship Council 
through the CSC - Trinity College Dublin Joint Scholarship programme to cover your 
accommodation and living expenses. If you are successful in your application for this funding, I can 
confirm that your tuition fees will be covered by Trinity College. 
3. Between mid-March and early April students must also apply for the scholarship online to the 
CSC http://apply.csc.edu.cn. Students should check actual dates on the CSC website as these 
can vary from year to year. 
4. The CSC will evaluate the candidates according to CSC requirements and priorities. Once the 
awardees are selected, the CSC will inform the successful applicants and provide Trinity with 
a final list of recipients (usually in June).  
Tips for a successful application  
• 
One supervisor should not submit more than two applications each year. 
• 
Supervisors should encourage the student to put effort into their CSC application, which is a 
crucial part of the CSC evaluation. 
• 
Priority is given to innovative research. 
• 
The CSC will consider the following when awarding scholarships: 
o Comprehensive competence of the applicants, including their previous study record, 
research experiences and academic capacity, as well as prospects and plan for their 
career in future. 
o Scientific research quality and international recognition of the proposed research 
subject in the host institution. 
o Research quality and dynamic of the host supervisor in recent years. 
o Significance, design and feasibility of the proposed research plan abroad. 
o Recommendations from the home institution. 
Appendix 1 – Cover for CSC Application 
China Scholarship Council (CSC) - Trinity College Dublin Joint 
Scholarship Application – School of XXXXX   
 
Student information 
Student: (candidate name)  
Trinity student / applicant number:      
Programme: PhD in   
Research title:     
Offer status: Unconditional / Conditional (not permitted on English language 
ability)      
Student’s academic background:   
1. Bachelor’s degree title:  
2. Awarding institution:  
3. GPA:  
4. Master’s degree title:   
5. Awarding institution:   
6. GPA:    
Any other relevant information that may support the student’s application 
(such as other degree, awards, scholarships): 
 
Supervisor information 
Supervisor:      
School: 
Have you previously supervised a CSC sponsored student? If so, how many and 
what year / stage of study are they at currently? 
Does your research project have sufficient funding to support this student and 
their research noting that the award does not include bench fees, lab fees or 
travel costs for conferences?