www.tcd.ie/study
Welcome
	
to Trinity
Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Vice President for 
Global Engagement
Welcome
to Trinity
View on Youtube →
View on Bilibili →
02
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Welcome to Trinity
03	
Welcome to Trinity	
→
04	
Orientation and Freshers’ Week	
→
05	
Accommodation	
→
06	
Academic Life and Support	
→
07	
Personal Support 	
→
08	
Visa and Immigration Information 	
→
09	
Arrival 	
→
09	
Financial Information 	
→
10	
Health and Insurance	
→
11	
Employment	
→
12	
Living in Dublin	
→
Click the menu icon 
on any page to 
get back here for 
navigation
BOOKMARK
Start Your Journey as a 
Trinity Student 
We are delighted to welcome you to Trinity 
College Dublin, the University of Dublin. As 
Ireland's leading university, ranked 81st in the 
world (QS World University Rankings 2024) 
and 31st most international university in the 
world (Times Higher Education Rankings 
2024), we pride ourselves on being a global 
research-led university with a diverse and 
vibrant university community. 
This Welcome Guide includes useful 
information on how we will support you as 
a new student as well as guidance on visas, 
immigration, finance and accommodation. 
We hope you find this Welcome Guide useful 
and look forward to welcoming you 
on campus.
Term dates can be found at:
www.tcd.ie/calendar/academic-year-structure
03
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Visiting/Erasmus Students:
Module Registration 
The Academic Registry is responsible for enrolling visiting 
students on their chosen modules. You will be contacted 
through the email address provided at application to outline 
how you can choose your modules before arrival at Trinity. For 
more information on the classes available to you please review 
our Visiting Student Module Directory. 
Any queries on specific module requirements, content, and 
timetable should be directed to the school you are applying 
to attend. www.tcd.ie/students/orientation/visiting-exchange/
module-enrolment.php
Visiting/Erasmus Transcripts
Trinity module results are published online and will be available 
to view through the my.tcd.ie student portal. Two copies of 
transcripts for Visiting/Erasmus students are sent directly to the 
student’s home institution. Further information can be found at:
www.tcd.ie/academicregistry/service-desk/transcripts
ECTS and Credit Transfer
The European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System 
(ECTS) is an academic credit system based on the estimated 
workload of a module. The ECTS credits for each module will 
be the same for all students. If special assessment/examination 
arrangements are required, the assessment or examination 
must be deemed equivalent to the assessment of other students 
completing the module. ECTS for each module will be provided 
in the Module Directory. Visiting students should confirm with 
their home university the number of ECTS credits required in 
order to receive full credit transfer for time at Trinity. 
Term Dates
Term dates can be found at:
www.tcd.ie/calendar/academic-year-structure
Registration Term Dates 
You will receive an invitation to register through your my.tcd.ie 
portal in August (or December/January for Semester 2 students). 
You should complete the online registration process prior to 
arrival. To complete the registration process, all tasks up to and 
including the Terms and Conditions of Registration must be 
completed in full. Payments must be made for all new entrant 
students, as per the University fee policy. Your ID card will be 
issued to you during Freshers’ Week as part of the Orientation 
schedule. It is recommended that you check your Trinity 
email account regularly for official communications from the 
University. Lecture timetables will be available via the portal 
near term time. 
Orientation
Orientation is a mixture of introductions to the University, 
course-specific meetings, campus tours, student mentor 
meetings and social events. Undergraduate orientation 
schedules are determined by course, and most sessions are 
mandatory. Detailed schedules will be available on 
www.tcd.ie/students/orientation in August with all the other 
information you need to get started at Trinity. The Global Room 
is open throughout orientation if you have any questions. 
Visiting and Erasmus student orientation is held during the 
week prior to the start of teaching term.
Undergraduate: www.tcd.ie/students/orientation/undergraduates
Postgraduate: www.tcd.ie/students/orientation/postgraduates
Orientation and Freshers' Week
Trinity Smart Start Programme*
This week-long programme is designed to introduce new 
international students to Irish history, literature and culture 
as well as help students adjust to life in Trinity and Dublin. 
The course runs the week prior to Freshers’ Week and details 
can be found at: www.tcd.ie/study/international/pre-sesson-
programmes/smart-start.php  
*Note: A similar programme is also offered for visiting students 
called the Semester Start Up Programme. 
Details at: www.histories-humanities.tcd.ie/visiting/
understandingireland/semester-start-up.php
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
04
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Accommodation Advisory Service 
If you do not secure University housing or wish to find your 
own accommodation, the Students’ Union operates an 
Accommodation Advisory Service. It is located on the ground 
floor in the Students’ Union building (House 6) on campus. The 
service is open Monday to Friday from 09:30 to 17:30. Their 
website is:  (tcdsuaccommodation.org)
The Accommodation Advisory Service offers computers and 
phones free of charge to assist with your search. A full-time staff 
member will be available for queries about accommodation 
related issues. The Service will provide information on tenant’s 
rights and health and safety information. The Service also 
provides an excellent opportunity to meet other students 
looking for housing. 
For more information or queries relating to private rented 
accommodation you can contact the Welfare Officer on 
welfare@tcdsu.org or on +353 (0)1 646 8437. The Students' 
Union has also produced a guide on finding accommodation: 
www.tcdsuaccommodation.org/how-to-find-a-gaff-guide
Accommodation
Trinity Accommodation
Undergraduate
All first year non-EU full degree undergraduate students are 
given priority for rooms at Trinity Hall, Kavanagh Court, and 
Here! Cork Street student accommodation. 
Trinity Hall is a large, friendly complex housing around 1,000 
students with its own Junior Common Room (similar to a 
Students' Union) that organises social activities and outings. 
Located 4km (2.5 miles) from the city centre, it is accessible by 
public tram and bus. Accommodation is apartment-style with 
en-suite bathrooms, with single and twin rooms sharing well-
appointed kitchens and sitting rooms. 
Kavanagh Court and Here! Cork Street are 3rd party private 
purpose-built modern student accommodation providers. 
Accommodation types will vary depending on the site/location. 
and are within walking distance of Trinity. 
Further information on all accommodation types, costs, and 
booking procedures will be available by February 2024 at:       
www.tcd.ie/accommodation/1st-year-students
Postgraduate
A limited number of rooms are available on campus for 
postgraduate students. For more information please see: 
Postgraduate  Students - Student Accommodation (tcd.ie)
A limited number of rooms for postgraduate students will 
be available at 3rd party private student accommodation 
providers where Trinity has referral agreements such as 
Kavanagh Court and Here! Cork Street student accommodation. 
Accommodation types will vary depending on the site/
location and will be modern student accommodation and all 
are within walking and short commuting distance of Trinity. 
Further information on accommodation types, costs, and 
booking procedures will be available by February 2024 at:                     
www.tcd.ie/accommodation/postgraduate-students/
Applying for Trinity Accommodation
Applications for all Trinity accommodation are made online. 
In order to apply, you must have your Trinity ID number. After 
you have officially accepted your place, your application 
number becomes your student number. If you would like Trinity 
accommodation, you are advised to apply as early as possible: 
www.tcd.ie/accommodation
Private (Non-University) 
Accommodation 
Dublin offers a range of options from shared houses and flats 
to private student residences. If you have not secured housing 
in advance of your arrival, we strongly advise you to arrive as 
early as possible in order to maximise your chances of finding 
suitable and affordable accommodation, as demand for housing 
in Dublin is extremely high. 
Digs/Lodgings
The Students' Union maintains a list of host families who have 
rooms (and in some cases full board) available to students. Digs 
are traditionally a little cheaper than private rented accommo­
dation. For further information, see here: 
www.tcdsuaccommodation.org/how-to-find-a-gaff-guide  
Private Rented Accommodation
There are a number of places online that you can search in 
order to view properties in all areas of Dublin and to get an idea 
as to what prices you should expect: 
www.daft.ie
www.myhome.ie
www.rent.ie
www.collegecribs.ie
www.gumtree.ie
www.property.ie
www.housinganywhere.com
To avoid rental scams or disappointment, you are strongly 
recommended to view any property in person before paying a 
deposit or paying any money online.
Trinity Hall
Temporary Accommodation
Trinity cannot provide assistance for booking private 
accommodation in a hostel or hotel. For more information 
about hotels, hostels and temporary rentals in Dublin, please 
see: 
www.discoverireland.ie
www.hostelworld.com/hostels/Ireland
www.airbnb.ie
Need a Roommate?
You can both search and place an ad on our Accommodation 
Advisory Service website to help find someone to live with. 
www.tcdsuaccommodation.org
Alternatively, you can search on www.daft.ie
Communal space, Trinity Hall
Trinity Accommodation
Trinity Hall
05
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Support Tutor 
Trinity assigns a Tutor to each full-degree undergraduate student. 
A Tutor is a member of the academic staff who is appointed to 
look after the general welfare and development of the students 
in his/her care. Whilst the Tutor may be one of your lecturers, the 
role of Tutor is quite separate from the teaching role. Tutors are 
a first point of contact and a source of support, both on arrival 
and at any time at Trinity. Their main function is to advise, listen 
to concerns, help you deal with issues as far as possible and refer 
more serious difficulties to the appropriate student services. 
They provide confidential help and advice on personal as well 
as academic issues or on anything that has an impact on your 
life. They will also, if necessary, support and defend your point 
of view in your relations with the University. You should make an 
appointment to meet with your Tutor during the first few weeks 
of the academic year. Visit the website for further information:      
www.tcd.ie/seniortutor
Postgraduates
The Postgraduate Advisory Service provides a confidential service 
for academic and personal support. You can also bring academic 
concerns to your course director. 
www.tcd.ie/seniortutor/students/postgraduate
English Language Support
Students for whom English is not their first language are eligible 
to complete courses in English for Academic Purposes, run by the 
University. Details on in-sessional and pre-sessional programmes 
are available here: www.tcd.ie/slscs/english
International Students 
with Disabilities
Students with disabilities or learning difficulties can face 
additional challenges studying away from home and may avail 
of reasonable accommodations and supports while studying 
at Trinity. You should contact the Disability Service at Trinity in 
advance with any queries you may have so you can be assisted 
with your plans and offered advice on the type of support 
available. For more information please visit the Disability 
Service webpage: www.tcd.ie/disability/prospective-students-/
international-students. You should register with the Disability 
Service as soon as you arrive in Dublin. You will need to bring a 
copy of your disability documentation from your home university. 
Please note: a letter listing your exam accommodations is not 
sufficient. Reasonable accommodations that apply in your home 
country may not be applicable at Trinity. 
Academic Life and Support
Computer and Library Access 
IT Services is responsible for the University’s main computing 
facilities; this means they will play a big part in your University 
experience. Visit their website for everything you need to 
know to get started with IT at Trinity, including what to do 
next once you have registered at my.tcd.ie, how to obtain your 
Trinity IT username and password, where to find your course 
material online and how to access it, your student timetable, 
connecting to the college Wi-Fi, and getting support for IT:                           
www.tcd.ie/itservices/students/orientation. Once you have 
received your student ID card, you will have access to the Library. 
Trinity's Library is the largest library in Ireland. Its collections 
of manuscripts and printed books have been built up since the 
end of the sixteenth century and its book stock is now over four 
million volumes. See here: www.tcd.ie/library
Erasmus Students
Each Erasmus Student is allocated a Department Erasmus 
Coordinator. The Department Erasmus Coordinator is a 
member of the academic staff who may provide advice on such 
matters as choosing courses, assessments and exams. They will 
be a source of guidance throughout your time as an Erasmus 
Student. The name of your Department Erasmus Coordinator 
will be included in your letter of acceptance. You should 
make an appointment to meet your Department Erasmus 
Coordinator as soon as possible after you arrive.
Academic Registry 
The Academic Registry is Trinity’s central hub for student 
administrative services. It can be found in the Watts Building, at 
the East End of the campus: www.tcd.ie/maps/map.php
Academic Registry provides a variety of important resources 
for students and can assist with queries on a range of services 
including: admissions, fees & payments, annual student 
registration, Study Abroad (visiting students & Erasmus) 
examinations, assessment, and graduation. Academic Registry 
will provide your student card, help visiting students enrol 
for classes (modules) and provide several of the documents 
you will need to register with the immigration bureau, apply 
for a Personal Public Services (PPS) number and open a bank 
account. 
Once you have completed registration a confirmation of this 
will be sent to your my.tcd.ie portal. From here you can print 
your official Trinity Proof of Registration letter. You can request 
documents or get help with a query by contacting the Academic 
Registry Service Desk through the my.tcd.ie portal by clicking 
the ASK AR button or emailing academic.registry@tcd.ie  
Opening Hours:
9:00 to 17:30 Monday to Thursday	
	
	
 
9:00 to 17:00 Friday	 	
	
	
www.tcd.ie/academicregistry
06
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Students' Union 
Every registered student at Trinity is automatically a member 
of the Students’ Union. The Students’ Union is a representative 
body with five full-time student sabbatical officers and a 
number of part-time officers, who look after the educational 
and welfare needs of Trinity’s student population, as well as 
organising entertainment and events. The Students' Union 
is based in House 6 in Trinity’s Front Square, where it runs an 
office with up-to-date accommodation and employment advice 
and listings. Photocopying facilities are available, and the 
Student Travelcard can be purchased here. 
www.tcdsu.org
Global Room 
The Global Room is a welcoming student support hub and event 
space on campus for all Trinity students.
The Global Room service is supported by a team of Global 
Ambassadors. These are students trained to help students with 
everything from immigration and accommodation practicalities 
to the basics of settling into life in Dublin.  The Global Room 
runs the New2Dublin programme on Monday evenings for 
several weeks at the start of term to help you settle into live in 
Dublin.
Located beside the Academic Registry in the Watts Building 
we are here to help. If you have any questions, please contact 
tcdglobalroom@tcd.ie 
www.instagram.com/tcdglobalroom 
www.tcd.ie/study/international/student-experience/global-room
Sports Centre
Membership to the Sports Centre is included in your 
registration. All registered students with a current Trinity ID card 
will have full access to the state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
You will need to call to the reception desk on your first 
visit to activate your ID card, and then you can come and 
go as you please. You will have free access to the fitness 
theatre, which has a full range of cardiovascular and weights 
stations. The 25m swimming pool has an adjustable floor 
and disabled hoist. Also available are the 11m-high climbing 
wall, aerobics fitness and cycling studios, mind and body 
studio, changing rooms, ancillary hall for martial arts and 
main hall for a variety of indoor sports. 
There is a nominal fee for some services such as fitness 
classes. Off campus there are extensive playing fields at 
Santry and the Trinity Boat Club has its boathouse on the 
River Liffey at Islandbridge. 
www.tcd.ie/sport
Counselling and 	
	
	
Student 2 Student 
The Student Counselling Service is a confidential, 
professional service available free of charge to every 
Trinity student. It offers help in coping with any personal or 
emotional problems which may impact on your studies or 
progress in the University and offers learning support and 
development aids. Appointments should be made directly 
with the Counselling Service. The Counselling Service runs 
workshops throughout the year. 
www.tcd.ie/student_counselling
Student 2 Student Mentor
From the moment you arrive at Trinity right through to your 
end of year exams, Student 2 Student (S2S) Mentors are here to 
make sure your first year is not only fun and engaging, but also 
a great foundation for the rest of your time at Trinity.
You’ll meet your S2S Mentors in Freshers’ Week and they’ll make 
sure you know other people in your course before your classes 
even begin. They’ll keep in regular touch with you throughout 
your first year and invite you to events on and off campus. 
They’ll also give you useful information about your course and 
what to look out for.
www.tcd.ie/student_counselling/student2student
Clubs and Societies
A great way to get to know people is by joining one of Trinity's 
120 student societies which cover everything from the Afro-
Caribbean Society to the Zoological Society. The societies 
meet regularly and provide an excellent opportunity to meet 
other students with similar interests. Among the societies are 
the Philosophical Society (the "Phil"), dating from 1684 and 
the Historical Society (the "Hist") dating from 1770. There are 
also many course-related societies, such as the History and the 
Engineering Society.
Additionally, there are almost 50 sports clubs at Trinity, so no 
matter what your sporting preferences are you will find a club 
at Trinity to suit you. Or you may like to try something new 
such as rugby, soccer, hockey, swimming, tennis, Gaelic games, 
basketball, volleyball, cricket or martial arts. You can turn up at 
any student society meeting and be sure of a warm welcome. 
While some societies are free there is usually a small joining fee, 
anything from €1 to €10 for the bigger sports clubs.
Full details of all the societies can be found at:                             
www.trinitysocieties.ie and details of sports clubs can be found 
at www.tcd.ie/sport/student-sport. You can meet society reps 
and sign up in Front Square during Freshers' Week.
www.trinitysocieties.ie
www.tcd.ie/sport/student-sport
Personal Support
07
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Checking Your Visa Status 
	
— You should generally allow 8 weeks for processing time. 
	
— You can check online for visa decisions 
using your visa application number at:                                                                        
www.irishimmigration.ie/visa-decisions
	
— When your visa is approved, the Embassy to which you sent 
your documents will affix a visa to your passport.
Immigration
At the Airport
If you do not hold an EU/EEA/Swiss/UK passport, whether visa-
required or not, are subject to ordinary immigration controls at 
the port of entry (ordinarily the airport). The Immigration Officer 
on duty determines who is actually allowed to enter Ireland. If 
your documentation is in order, he/she will stamp your passport 
for up to three months (90 days). All Non-EU/EEA/Swiss/UK 
students must register with Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) 
within the time limit stamped on the passport. 
At the immigration desk, you should be prepared to present the 
following documents:
	
— Your valid passport
	
— Your Trinity offer letter 
	
— Confirmation of fees paid (at least deposit) or scholarship 
grant received
	
— Bank statement showing finances to support your stay
	
— Proof of health insurance                                
You should keep these documents with you in your carry-on 
luggage as immigration border control is before baggage claim. 
You should also keep all these documents ready, as you will 
need them again when you register with Immigration Service 
Delivery (ISD).
Students who hold an EU/EEA/Swiss/UK passport do not require 
a visa to study and work in Ireland. Some, but not all, non-EU/
EEA/Swiss/UK students require an entry visa for Ireland. For 
example, students coming from the United States or Canada do 
not require a visa to enter Ireland, students coming from China 
or India do require a visa to enter Ireland.
To see if you require a visa for Ireland visit: 
www.citizensinformation.ie/en/moving-country/visas-for-
ireland/visa-requirements-for-entering-ireland/#16e51d
Non-EU/EEA/Swiss/UK students who do not require a visa will 
still be required to register with Immigration Service Delivery 
(ISD) after arrival. Please see Immigration information on 
the next page. Please note that INIS has changed its name to 
Immigration Service Delivery (ISD).
Applying for a Visa 
Students should submit visa applications using the AVATS facility 
at: www.visas.inis.gov.ie/AVATS/OnlineHome.aspx 
Applications will only be processed when:   
	
— The online form is completed  
	
— All required documentation (e.g. passport photograph, fees) 
is received by the relevant offices. 
There is a dedicated visa processing office in China, India, Nigeria, 
United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom.  
Non-EU/EEA/Swiss/UK students resident in these countries, 
please refer to the local Irish Embassy website for any further 
documentation required.
Please refer to the links below for visa guidelines:	                    
www.irishimmigration.ie/coming-to-study-in-ireland
Contact details for embassies can be found here:	
                 
www.dfa.ie/embassies
Additional information on visas and immigration can be found 
at: www.irishimmigration.ie
Take a look at our Visa and Immigration Video: 
youtu.be/Wn2js1fQllw                                                
Mandatory Visa Application 
Documentation
	
— It is a mandatory requirement for non-EU/EEA/Swiss/UK 
students to have private health insurance and you will be 
required to show evidence. Non-EU/EEA/Swiss/UK students 
who will be resident in Ireland for a minimum of one 
academic year may apply to HSE www.hse.ie to be assessed 
for entitlements to public hospital for treatment. Non-EU/
EEA/Swiss/UK students staying less than a year do not have 
any entitlement to free or subsidized health services.
	
— You must show evidence that you have immediate access to 
at least €10,000. You must also demonstrate that you and/
or your sponsor(s) have ready access to at least €10,000 for 
each subsequent year of your studies in addition to course 
fees for each of those years. If the duration of your course is 
less than 6 months you must have access to €700 per month 
of your stay or €4,200 whichever is the lesser. All details listed 
here must be proven by documentary evidence and, where 
sponsors are involved, it must be clear their documents relate 
to them. More details please visit: www.irishimmigration.
ie/coming-to-study-in-ireland/what-are-my-study-
options/a-fee-paying-private-primary-or-secondary-school/
information-on-student-finances
	
— Download your Trinity “Visa Letter” by going to “My 
Applications” in the my.tcd.ie portal and clicking “Generate 
Visa Letter”. This will include course information and a record 
of fees paid. Your fee balance will be updated in the Visa 
Letter when additional payments are made. International 
students are advised to pay fees using the TransferMate 
option as the receipt is accepted by the Department of Justice 
for visa purposes. The fee payment for a visa is often higher 
than the University acceptance deposit. You must pay the 
deposit required to obtain your visa (usually 50% of one 
year’s tuition).  For all queries, please contact the Academic 
Registry.
	
— Show evidence of language proficiency.                                            
For ISD language requirement please refer to:                                                             
www.irishimmigration.ie/coming-to-study-in-ireland/english-
language-requirements-for-study-visas
	
— Any other documents as requested by ISD or the Irish 
Embassy through which you are applying. The full list 
of required documentation is available on the visa and 
immigration website: www.irishimmigration.ie/coming-to-
study-in-ireland/what-are-my-study-visa-options/how-to-
apply-for-long-term-study-visa
Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) 
Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) is located on Burgh Quay, 
Dublin 2, approximately a 5-minute walk from the campus. You 
must have an appointment to visit the ISD Office. 
To book an appointment visit: www.irishimmigration.ie/burgh-
quay-appointments. Students should only use Irish number to 
call the freephone 1800 800 630. 
In order to register with ISD, students must collect the following 
documents to support their application. Please allow 5 working 
days for Irish bank statements and for documents needed from 
Academic Registry.
Mandatory Supporting Documents
	
— Valid passport
	
— Proof of Trinity registration, which can be generated from 
my.tcd.ie portal or requested from Academic Registry. Note: 
This document must be issued and dated within 7 days 
before your ISD appointment
	
— Bank statement from an Irish bank account showing at least 
€4,500 available. Foreign bank statements are also acceptable 
if you have proof that this account can be accessed. If the 
duration of the course is less than 6 months, you must have 
access to €500 per month of your stay or €3,000, whichever is 
the lesser. Note, this ONLY applies to students from Non-visa 
required countries. If you are from a visa required country, 
you do not need proof of finance after you arrive here, your 
ability to support yourself on arrival in the State is checked 
during the visa application process.
	
— Proof of health insurance
	
— €300 fee (credit/debit card; no cash).
Documents from Academic Registry
Students wishing to request specific documents or certificates 
can do so through the Academic Registry Service Desk: 
www.tcd.ie/academicregistry/service-desk/documents-and-forms
The standard registration letter can be self-generated through 
your my.tcd.ie portal. Please allow up to 5 days from time 
of request to collect other documents that are not available 
through self-service.
Visa and Immigration
For further visa and immigration information, see: www.tcd.ie/
study/international/arriving-in-ireland/visa-immigration
08
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Please see the Immigration section on page 9 regarding the 
documents necessary for Non-EU/EEA/Swiss/UK passport 
holders.
Arrival
Customs
After collecting your luggage, you will proceed through 
Customs. Usually, there are two channels for arrivals: the green 
channel if you have nothing to declare and the red channel if 
you have goods to declare. 
Please check before you leave your home country what you are 
allowed to bring into Ireland. Further information can be found 
here: www.citizensinformation.ie/en/travel_and_recreation/
travel_to_ireland/customs_regulations_for_travellers.html
Travelling to Trinity and the 		
City Centre
Dublin Airport is approximately 10 km (7 miles) from the city 
centre and Trinity’s campus. Transportation options include:
	
— The Aircoach bus service (www.aircoach.ie) runs 24 hours 
a day and stops near Trinity. The single fare is €8 or  €7 if 
you book online in advance, and buses depart from Dublin 
Airport every 15 minutes, except between the hours of 23:55 
and 03:25 when they depart every 30 minutes (23:55, 00:25, 
00:55 etc.)
	
— The Airlink (www.airlinkexpress.ie) is an express bus service 
operated by Dublin Bus. Airlink Bus 747 stops on Dame 
Street, opposite the Trinity College Dublin entrance. The 
single fare is €9. 
	
— For further directions to Trinity Hall please see:                           
www.tcd.ie/accommodation/trinity-hall
With a campus nestled in the heart 
of Dublin, Trinity students are ideally 
situated to experience everything the city 
has to offer including live music, theatre, 
and numerous cultural interests. 
For more advice on getting the most 
out of your time in Dublin visit the                            
Trinity Experience blog.
Tuition Fees 
The full listing of tuition fees is available here:
www.tcd.ie/academicregistry/fees-and-payments 
Fee Payment 
You will receive an invitation to register in August, which will 
include fee payment. You should note that completion of fee 
payment does not complete the registration process. All tasks 
up to and including the Terms and Conditions of registration 
must be completed in full. 
Visiting students should consult with their home institution 
for more information, as tuition fee structures may vary and 
financial aid deadlines may differ. Participants in Understanding 
Ireland: The Semester Start-Up Programme should also consult 
with their home institution and Trinity regarding payment for 
the programme.
TransferMate Payment Option
Trinity partners with TransferMate to allow international 
students to pay from their home country in their local currency. 
The service also provides a detailed receipt and helps the 
Student Finance team better track payments to student 
numbers than using traditional wire transfer payments. 
There is no international transfer charge for using the service. 
This is the recommended method of payment for international 
students, with credit card payments as a second preference. 
The TransferMate receipt is accepted by visa offices as proof of 
payment of tuition fees: tcd.paytostudy.com
Currency
The currency in Ireland is the Euro (€).
Opening a Bank Account 
You must open a bank account in person in a bank branch. 
You are advised to open an Irish bank account after you secure 
accommodation in Ireland. They may request to see your Trinity 
offer letter as proof of your circumstances.
Mandatory Documents to Open       
an Account
	
— Photo ID (Passport or National ID card)
	
— Trinity ID card*
	
— Proof of address: utility bill, Revenue/PPS letter, letter 
from Trinity Academic Registry sent to Irish address
	
— Other documents may be requested depending on the bank
and their policy on students' country of origin.
*If opening account prior to ID card collection, bank may accept 
Trinity offer letter and proof of fees paid as evidence of student 
status. 
There are normally no fees charged on student bank accounts. 
Ireland's most popular banks:
	
— AIB www.aib.ie 
	
— Bank of Ireland www.bankofireland.com 
After opening an account, you will be able to sign up for online 
banking and link to a home account. Please allow five working 
days for bank statement requests, whether made online or in a 
branch. If you will be under 18 at the time of opening your bank 
account, you will need a guardian to accompany you to open 
a bank account. For further information, please contact the 
Global Room at tcdglobalroom@tcd.ie. For postgraduates and 
visiting students securing private accommodation, most letting 
agents and landlords will accept cash or bank draft (which you 
can obtain with a foreign debit card or cash in an Irish bank) for 
the first month’s rent and security deposit as long as you set 
up direct debit from an Irish account as soon as possible after 
opening your new bank account.
Bringing Money to Ireland
Please bring only a small amount in Euro for your arrival. The 
University does not have any facilities to keep cash safe for you. 
You should enquire with your bank at home if you can use your 
debit or credit card in Ireland, as this could be a safe way to 
obtain cash immediately after your arrival. Once you have opened 
a bank account in Dublin, money can be transferred by electronic 
/ wire transfer into your new account. Before you leave home, 
talk to your local bank to find out all the details about making 
transfers to your account in Ireland (e.g. maximum amount, how 
long it takes, how much it costs) so that you can plan the best 
system for your circumstances. International Visa/ Debit cards 
often require proof of photo ID. Travellers’ cheques are not widely 
accepted in Ireland.
Financial Information
09
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Trinity recommends that you have a level of insurance to cover 
your health needs and requirements for the duration of your 
studies. For example, if you have a pre-existing condition, 
please check the level of insurance cover in any new policy to 
ensure that it will cover this. 
Trinity has a group insurance scheme for international students 
with Irish Life that is designed specifically for international 
students and which covers pre-existing conditions and the 
normal waiting period for cover is waived. The cost of any policy 
varies based on age and individual factors of the applicant. 
Ensure you state clearly that you are a Trinity student under 
the insurance group scheme "Trinity College Dublin Non-EU 
Students policy". Please use the code: 20932 - Trinity College 
Dublin Non-EU Students to avail of this scheme. You can then 
choose an insurance policy that suits your individual needs. 
Further information is available at: 
Irish Life: www.irishlifehealth.ie
VHI Healthcare: www.vhi.ie
Laya Healthcare: www.layahealthcare.ie
Study and Protect: www.studyandprotect.com/unilanding.aspx
EU Students 
Students from EU states should apply for a European Health 
Insurance Card (EHIC) in their home country before departure.
It is very important that you have adequate insurance 
before coming to Dublin. Please bring your European Health 
Insurance Card (EHIC) with you. This card is available through 
the Health Board in your home country. Please see the EHIC 
website for information on how to get the card in your country:     
ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=559.
Subsidised Health Services 
Non-EU students who will be resident in Ireland for a minimum of 
one academic year may apply to the Health Service Executive to 
be assessed for entitlements to public hospital treatment under 
the same conditions as an Irish citizen. Non-EU students staying 
less than one academic year do not have any entitlement to free 
or subsidised health services. www.hse.ie
Trinity Health Service 
All full-time registered students are eligible to use the Trinity 
Health Service throughout the year. The service offers on-
campus primary health and psychiatric care. To arrange an 
appointment, either drop into reception or ring the office. As 
well as the free general practice (including sports medicine) and 
nurse-run clinics, there are specialised clinics in physiotherapy, 
psychiatry, travel health, sexual health, eating disorders and 
minor surgery.
For emergency visits, the Trinity Health Service sees patients 
on a first-come, first-served basis in the mornings beginning at 
9:30 and after lunch, beginning at 14:00. There are often queues 
for these emergency clinics, so students hoping to speak to a 
physician are advised to arrive early.
Students can also attend DUBDOC, an out-of-hours emergency 
general practitioner service in St. James’s Hospital, James's 
Street, Dublin 8 between 18:00 and 22:00 weekdays and 10:00 
to 18:00 weekends and bank holidays. There is an attendance 
fee of €60. Consultations are strictly by appointment; however 
telephone advice from the triage nurse is free of charge. 
DUBDOC can be reached on +353 (0)1 454 5607/453 8006.      
www.stjames.ie/services
Outside these hours, please telephone the Contactors Medical 
Bureau at +353 (0)1 830 0244. They will send a doctor on 
request. Students, with the exception of medical cardholders 
or EU students with European health cards, are responsible 
for any fees incurred for home visits. See also page 13 Student 
Disability Service.
www.tcd.ie/collegehealth
+353 (01) 896 1591/1556
The Printing House
Medication 
If you need to bring prescribed medication until you can find 
an alternative source in Ireland, please note that the maximum 
amount of imported medication permitted is a 3-month supply, 
which must be cleared through Customs by the Irish Medicines 
Board. Customs will only clear medication that is licensed for 
use in Ireland.
See link below regarding Trinity's support for students with 
ADHD: www.tcd.ie/disability/support-and-resources/adhd-
supports/medical-and-health-supports-and-advice/#d.
en.1713957
Health and Insurance
10
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
Casual Employment
For Non-EU Students
	
— Students who are attending a full-time course of one year's 
duration are entitled to seek employment on a casual basis.
	
— One semester students cannot seek employment.
	
— Casual employment means you can work for 20 hours 
per week, except for two standardised periods when it is 
permissible to work full-time (up to 40 hours per week). The 
periods are 15th December to 15th January and 1st June to 31st 
September only, corresponding to the traditional summer 
and winter college holidays. These dates are fixed for all 
non-EEA students, regardless of the actual college teaching 
calendar for their course. Further information is available at: 
www.internationalstudents.ie/info-and-advice/immigration/
working-in-ireland
	
— All employees in Ireland must have a PPS number for tax 
purposes.
Obtaining a PPS Number
A PPS number serves as your tax identification number for 
employers. You can apply for a PPS number with the following 
documents:
	
— Passport
	
— Proof of address
For more information, please see here:
www.gov.ie/en/service/12e6de-get-a-personal-public-service-
pps-number
Note: EU passport-holders have the same rights to work as Irish 
citizens. Non-EU citizens must register with Immigration Service 
Delivery (ISD) before commencing employment.
How to Find a Part-Time Job
Register with MyCareer, our online careers portal managed by 
Trinity Careers Service, to find current jobs available to students 
and graduates. These include part-time jobs and summer work. 
See more at: www.tcd.ie/careers/mycareer
You can also sign up to the Students' Union Jobs mailing list by 
emailing sujobs@tcd.ie
Other employment websites which are frequently used by 
students are:
www.monster.ie
www.jobs.ie
www.irishjobs.ie
www.jobbio.com
www.indeed.com
To find part-time work in a supermarket, retail shop, café, bar or 
restaurant, it is common practice to visit the establishment with 
your CV and ask about job vacancies.
The international students section of the Trinity Careers 
Service website has more information about working as an 
international student: 
www.tcd.ie/careers/students/international.php
Employment
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
11
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Cost of Living 
Cost of living will vary widely depending on your circumstances 
and lifestyle. The following figures represent estimated living 
costs for one academic year (September – June). Please note 
that the figures below do not include travel outside of Dublin or 
entertainment. 
*Books, entertainment, clothing, and other personal items
**Insurance can range in price from €200 - 1,800
Dining 
There are several eateries on campus for students including the 
Dining Hall and Buttery Food Court, the Forum Restaurant in the 
Business School and the Pavilion Bar. There is also the Students' 
Union Café in the Goldsmith Hall. The Students' Union Café, 
which is run by students, serves hot sandwiches for the cheapest 
prices on campus. In addition, there are coffee shops in Áras an 
Phiarsaigh (beside IT Services) and in the Arts Building serving 
sandwiches, snacks and hot drinks. Further information can be 
found here: www.tcd.ie/catering. Please note Trinity does not 
operate meal plans.
Groceries 
It is best to go to the big supermarkets like Dunnes Stores, Tesco, 
Supervalu, Aldi and Lidl. The closest supermarkets to Trinity’s 
campus are Dunnes Stores in the St. Stephen’s Green Shopping 
Centre at the top of Grafton Street, Marks & Spencer on Grafton 
Street, Tesco on Upper Baggot Street, Tesco on Fleet Street in 
Temple Bar, Lidl on Moore Street and Aldi on Parnell Square.
Shopping
For household items like bed linen and crockery, Penneys on 
Henry Street and Dunnes Stores in the St. Stephen’s Green 
Shopping Centre have excellent inexpensive ranges. In addition, 
student-favourite IKEA is located to the north of the city. It is 
serviced by the 140 bus. The shops in and around Grafton Street 
offer a range of clothing and housewares at a wide array of price 
points.  
Bookstores: Hodges Figgis, 56-58 Dawson Street, have textbooks 
available on the top floor; Easons, 40 Lower O’Connell Street, is a 
large chain bookstore.
Stationery: Easons on Nassau Street and Tiger in Stephen's Green 
Shopping Centre stock a wide selection of paper goods and 
stationery. 
Pharmacies: Lombard Pharmacy on Pearse Street offers a 15% 
discount for students, Boots and Hickey's Pharmacies on Grafton 
Street, Prices Medical Hall on Clare Street and Trinity Pharmacy 
on Westland Row.
Mobile Phones
Most international students buy a mobile phone for use in 
Ireland, with the most popular option being the “prepay” phone, 
also known as “top up” or “pay as you go”. Instead of getting a 
monthly bill, you top up your credit as needed.
With the pre-pay option, you buy a phone and get a certain 
amount of free credit with it. Once your credit has run out, you 
can top up your credit a number of ways, including through an 
ATM, buying it in a newsagent or supermarket, or online.
There are three major phone service providers:
	
— Vodafone: www.vodafone.ie
	
— Eir: www.eir.ie/mobile
	
— 3: www.three.ie
All of the major mobile providers have retail locations on Grafton 
Street, just south of Trinity’s main gates. It is also possible to 
obtain an Irish SIM card for use in your existing mobile phone, but 
you should check with your current provider for details.
If you are phoning a landline in Dublin from your mobile, you 
should put 01 (Dublin’s area code) before the telephone number. 
If you are phoning a landline elsewhere in Ireland from your 
mobile, there will be a different area code for each county. The 
international dialling code for Ireland is +353.
Living in Dublin
Rent (shared apartment)
€7,500 - €10,800
Utilities
€1,100
Meals
€3,300
Miscellaneous*
€2,750
Commuting
€1,100
Health Insurance**                                    
€600
Immigration registration                              
(if applicable):
€300
Understanding Ireland                      
Optional 1 week pre-term programme
€660
Total
€17,310 - €20,610
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
12
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Student Travelcard 
For discounted travel within Ireland, you will need to get a 
Student Travelcard, also known as a Student Leap Card, the 
National Student Travel and Discount Card. This is the only card 
accepted by Irish Rail, Dublin Bus, Bus Eireann and LUAS (tram) 
for student fares. It is also a discount card for hundreds of goods 
and services nationwide. The Student Travelcard is accepted as 
authentic proof of student status, allowing you to book a student 
flight to anywhere in the world.
The application form will be available in the Students’ Union in 
House 6. Further information can be found at: about.leapcard.
ie/about/tfi-leap-card-types/student
Public Transport in Dublin
Leap Card
The Leap Card is a reusable plastic smartcard that can be used 
instead of paper tickets to pay for transport in Dublin. A Leap 
Card offers the flexibility to jump on Dublin Bus, Luas, DART and 
commuter rail services around Dublin when it suits you without 
having to buy a specific ticket in advance. You can top up your 
leap card in most newsagents, and at Dart and Luas stations. 
For further information on the Leap Card and where to get one 
please see: www.leapcard.ie
Dublin Bus
Dublin has an extensive bus route network. Please note that 
if you don’t have a leapcard or rambler ticket, you must have 
exact change, as the bus driver will not give change back but 
will give back a receipt. You can reclaim your change at a later 
stage by handing in your receipts to the Dublin Bus Head Office 
in O’Connell Street. Students can buy ‘rambler’ tickets from 
the Students' Union (SU) shop that allows you to buy a ticket in 
advance for a set amount of days.
For further information on routes and timetables please see: 
www.dublinbus.ie
Nitelink
Dublin Bus operates a night service called Nitelink which runs 
from the city centre to the suburbs. The Nitelink buses are a 
cheap and safe alternative to taxis. For further information 
on routes and timetables please see: www.dublinbus.ie/en/
your-journey1/timetables/nitelink-services 
DART
The DART train runs along the coast from Howth and Malahide 
in the north to Greystones in the south. The main DART stations 
close to Trinity are Tara Street Station and Pearse Station. For 
timetables please see: www.irishrail.ie
Luas
The Luas service has two tramlines between the city centre 
and the suburbs. The Green Line connects Sandyford to St. 
Stephen’s Green, passing through Stillorgan, Dundrum, Milltown 
and Ranelagh. The Red Line connects Tallaght to The Point and 
Saggart to Connolly passing through Rialto, Smithfield and 
Abbey Street. The Green Line runs from Broombridge to Brides 
Glen passing through Trinity and Dawson Street. For details, 
see: www.luas.ie
DublinBikes
Dublin has a bike-sharing scheme, allowing you to collect a 
bike from any DublinBikes stand and return it to any other 
stand. They offer annual memberships at very low cost. More 
information is available here: www.dublinbikes.ie
Nationwide Public Transport
Iarnrod Eireann (Irish Rail)
Irish Rail operates train services to Irish cities from two train 
stations in Dublin: Heuston Station and Connolly Station, both 
of which are located in the city centre. For timetables please 
see: www.irishrail.ie
Bus Eireann (Irish Bus)
Bus Eireann has a nationwide network connecting all major 
Irish cities and also provides linking services from major 
cities to smaller towns or villages. Buses leave and arrive 
in Dublin at Busaras (Central Bus Station), which is close 
to Connolly Station. For further information please see:                                   
www.buseireann.ie
Bus Tours
The main tourist office in Dublin can provide information about 
coach tour providers in Ireland. The tourist office is located on 
Suffolk Street. Or visit: www.visitdublin.com 
Smoking in Ireland
Smoking is banned in all workplaces throughout Ireland, 
including offices, pubs, bars, restaurants and public transport.
Electricity Voltage
Students who wish to bring electrical appliances with them 
should note that the voltage in Ireland is 220v. You will 
also need an adaptor, as the sockets in Ireland have three 
rectangular holes. Irish electric sockets are the same as in the 
United Kingdom.
Irish Weather
The Irish Climate is temperate and mild. Temperatures rarely 
drop below 0°C or rise higher than 24°C. The rain is most often 
not torrential, but light to medium showers. For clothing, 
make sure you have a good waterproof and windproof jacket 
and warm clothing for the winter months. However, there are 
excellent shopping facilities in and around Dublin and all items 
can be purchased here as well.
Security
Trinity’s campus is very safe and the Security Officers 
provide a 24-hour service. However, when you leave the 
campus it is important to appreciate that Dublin is a major 
international city with a population of over 1.2 million 
people and as such, you should remain vigilant about your 
personal safety and belongings at all times. The contact 
number for 24-hour Security Centre is +353 (0)1 896 1317.
The emergency number is +353 (0)1 896 1999.
Useful Links
Postal Service: www.anpost.com
Electricity Supply Board: www.esb.ie
Gas Supply Board: www.bordgaisenergy.ie
Broadband and Cable Suppliers: 	
	
	
www.eir.ie or www.virginmedia.ie
Ireland's National Police Service: www.garda.ie
You should call 999 or 112 in the case of an emergency which 
requires an immediate Garda response. 
Emergencies include:
	
— A danger to life
	
— Risk of serious injury
	
— Crime in progress or about to happen
	
— Offender still at scene or has just left
In a non-emergency situation, you should ring your nearest 
Garda station if you need assistance. The nearest Garda station 
to Trinity College is on Pearse Street. Their phone number is 
+353 (01) 666 9000.
Read our Global Room 
Ambassador’s Blog here: 
trinity-experience-blog.com
Living in Dublin
13
Welcome to Trinity Start Your Journey as a Trinity Student
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin
@tcdglobal
tcdglobal
/tcdglobal
trinity-experience-blog.com
G-08-BRH-WELCOME-02-24
The Trinity Global team is dedicated to 
helping international students and we would 
be delighted to answer your questions. 
Please contact us at:
Trinity Global
Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin,
Dublin 2, Ireland.
www.tcd.ie/study
Contact your Regional Manager at: 
www.tcd.ie/global/people/#recruitment
Join the Trinity Community
Trinity’s Dedicated Channels In-Country
If you have further questions about your 
application status you can contact the 
Applications and Admissions Team in Trinity’s 
Academic Registry.
Academic Registry
Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin, 
Dublin 2, Ireland.
+353 (0) 1 896 4500 
www.tcd.ie/academicregistry
academic.registry@tcd.ie
Facebook
X
Linkedin
Instagram
Student Blog
India
Facebook
www.facebook.com/trinitycollegedublinindia
Instagram
www.instagram.com/trinitycollegedublin_india
South East Asia
Instagram
www.instagram.com/tcd_seaeao
The Americas
Instagram
www.instagram.com/tcdamericas
China
Bilibili
space.bilibili.com/695604784
WeChat 
weixin.qq.com/r/gEiJkWXEcTgOrSHy9x2S
If you have any questions about studying at Trinity, 
please get in touch with us.
Find out more about studying at Trinity → www.tcd.ie/study
Weibo
m.weibo.cn/u/3905092477
Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin has sought to 
ensure that the information given in this brochure either in 
print or online is correct at the time of publication but does not 
guarantee its accuracy and furthermore Trinity does not accept 
any liability for omissions, errors or changes in its content. 
While Trinity aims to provide the courses, modules and 
facilities described in this brochure, it does not represent a 
binding commitment to provide the courses, modules and 
facilities described within. Trinity reserves the right, at any 
time and without notice, to add, remove or alter content of the 
brochure. Nothing in this brochure should be construed as an 
offer to attend Trinity. Any offer made by Trinity will be subject 
to the University’s admissions policy and will be made clear to 
the applicant upon receiving an offer. Neither this brochure or 
any other information on the Trinity website nor any Faculty 
or School website create a contract or other legally binding 
relationship between Trinity and any third party.
tcdglobal
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin