Rev - 3 (Mar 2019)

Safety Statement

 

Dublin South Circular Road
Dublin Wolfe Tone Street
Cork
Limerick

Key Safety Roles
Reg Callanan — Director of Griffith College
Ronan Fenelon — Director of Griffith College
Alan Wright — Safety Officer Griffith College Dublin
Liam Atkins and Thomas Kelleher — Safety Coordinators Griffith College Dublin
Mairead Lawless — Safety Officer Dublin Wolfe Tone Street
Ciaran McIntyre — Safety Coordinator Dublin Wolfe Tone Street
Jim Daly — Safety Officer Griffith College Cork
Noel Daly — Safety Coordinator Griffith College Cork
Kevin O’Sullivan — Safety Officer Griffith College Limerick

Kevin O’ Sullivan — Safety Coordinator Griffith College Limerick

 
 

Rev — 3 (Mar 2019)

Contents

Safety Statement

1. Declaration of Policy

2. Safety Policy

3. Safety Management Structure and Responsibilities

3.9
3.10

The President

The Management Board

Directors of Management Board with Responsibility for Health and Safety
Head of Faculty/Department and Line Manager

Campus Companies

Campus Services/Facilities Department

Campus Services/Facilities Manager

Contractors

Safety Officer

Safety Coordinator

3.11 Employees (Including Lecturers)
3.12 Employer
3.13 Health and Safety Organisation Chart

4. Communication of the Safety Statement
4.1 Resources
4.2 Hazard and Risks
4.3 Hazard Identification

Physical Hazards
Chemical Hazards
Psychological Hazards

4.4 Risk Assessment

5. Control Measures
5.1 Physical Hazards

Control Measures for Furniture and Work Equipment
Control Measures for Noise

Control Measures for Vibration

Control Measures for Light

Control Measures for Temperature

Control Measures for Violence

Control Measures for Lone working

Control Measures for Safe Access/Exit

Control Measures for Safe use of Equipment

Control Measures for Manual Handling

Control Measures for Electricity

Control Measures for Slips/Trips/Falls

Control Measures for Visual Display Units, Work Stations and Breaks
Control Measures for Storage
Rev — 3 (Mar 2019)

5.2 Control Measures
Chemical Hazards
Material Data Sheets
Carcinogens
Chemical Usage
5.3 Control Measures
Psychological Hazards
Prevention of Bullying and Harassment
Sexual Harassment
Stress
5.4 Control Measures
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
Safety Head Wear
Gloves
Eye Protection
Safety Foot Wear
Safety Harness
Hearing Protection
5.5 Control Measures — Segregation of Waste
5.6 Control Measures — No smoking Buildings
5.7 Control Measures — Security
5.8 Control Measures — Pregnant Employees

6.0 Fire and Emergency Management
6.1 Means of Escape
6.2 Emergency Drills
6.3 Fire Alarms
6.4 Firefighting Equipment
6.5 Emergency Lighting
6.6 Fire Doors
6.7 Fire Policy
6.8 Duties of College Fire Marshals
6.9 Fire Action — College Fire Marshals
6.10 Fire Action - All employees, students and contractors
6.11 First Aid
6.12 Fire Brigade hand over folder
6.13 List of First Aid Personnel
6.14 Location of First Aid Boxes
6.15 Minimum Contents of First Aid Boxes
6.16 Care of Injured Party
6.17 Automatic External Defibrillator (AED)

7.0 Risk Management and Accident/Incident Reporting

What to do if you have an accident
Duties of the line manager in the case of an accident
Duties of The Health and Safety Coordinators in the case of an accident
Duties of the First Aider in the case of an accident

7.1 Procedure for reporting Health and Safety Issues

7.2 Accident and Incident Report Form Dublin and Cork _

7.3 Accident and Incident Report Form Limerick

7.4 Hazard and Risk Assessment Work-Sheets

 
 

Rev — 3 (Mar 2019)

8.0 Training
8.1 Health and Safety Training Records
8.2 Train the Trainers Programmes
8.3 Manual Handling Training

9.0 Review of the Safety Statement
9.1 Review Checklist

Appendix 1

App 1.1 List of Trained Fire Marshals

App 1.2 List of Key Contacts

App 1.3 Location of Accident/Incident report form/book

Appendix 2
App 2.1 Sample Risk Assessment and Method Statement
Rev — 3 (Mar 2019)

Griffith College Safety Statement

1. Declaration of Policy

The President and the Management Board of Griffith College are committed to providing, so far as is
reasonably practicable, a safe and healthy werk environment for all employees and to meet its
responsibilities under the Safety Health & Welfare Act 2005, (SHWA) in relation to students, visitors,
contractors and any other persons who may come in contact with the work activities of the college.

In accordance with the SHWA, Griffith College has prepared this Safety Statement which outlines our
policies on health and safety matters, the management structure and the associated responsibilities for
health and safety. Specific safety and health issues relevant to the College are detailed in this statement.

Under this Act, everyone, especially employees in a management role, has a responsibility for ensuring
compliance where they work.

All employees are obliged to comply with the safety and health rules and procedures currently in place
and those devised and implemented in the future.

We want all our employees to enjoy a safe working environment and have put in place the necessary
mechanisms to ensure that as far as is reasonable practicable this is the case. However, the personal safety
and health at work is also the responsibility cf each employee, student, visitor, contractor and the actions
and behaviour of each will determine his/her level of protection against accidents or injury. All employees
must work safely and think of others. It is important that employees know and understand the risk
assessments for their area and report all safety and health matters to their line manager and contact their
safety representative with any safety and health matters.

Remember, all employees must read and understand this Safety Statement.

This Safety Statement will be reviewed on a regular basis and updated as necessary in light of changes in
legislation, operations and technical progress.

Staff are encouraged to pit forward suggestions for improvements to this documentation.

      

t
Date 0 AAC /9- Reg Callanan Director Griffith College

 

 

 

GRIFFITH COLLEGE

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

2. Safety Policy

It is the policy of the Griffith College to ensure that all measures reasonably practicable are taken to
ensure the safety, health and welfare at work of all employees and to ensure that non-employees, who
may be affected by the College activities, are not exposed to safety and health risks.

In accordance with the SHWA, the College shall ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable:

e Manage and conduct work activities in such a way as to prevent any improper conduct or
behavior likely to put the safety, health or welfare at work of employees and non-
employees at risk.

e Provide and maintain a working environment that is safe, healthy and without risks.

e Ensure the design, provision and maintenance of safe means of access to, and exit from,
its premises.

e Ensure that all plant, machinery, equipment or appliances of the College are safe and
without risk to the safety, health and welfare at work of all people.

e Ensure the prevention of risk to the health of employees and non-employees relating to the
use of any article/substance/exposure to noise/vibration or any other physical agent.

e Provide systems of work that are planned, organized and maintained so as to be safe and
without risk to health.

e Provide and maintain facilities and arrangements for the welfare of employees and non-
employees at work.

e Provide information, instruction, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure
employees are capable and competent in carrying out their duties.

e Provide and maintain such suitable protective clothing and equipment as is necessary to
ensure the safety, health and welfare at work of employees.

Prepare and revise as necessary adequate emergency plans and procedures.
Determine and implement the measures necessary for the protection of the safety, health
and welfare of employees and non-employees.

e Report accidents/dangerous occurrences, as may be prescribed, to the Health and Safety
Authority or to a person prescribed in the SHWA.

e Obtain where necessary the services of a competent person for the purpose of ensuring the
safety, health and welfare at work of all employees and non-employees.

e Ensure that contractors employed on the College premises are competent and that they
conduct their operations in accordance with the College's Safety Statement.

Griffith College will provide the necessary resources, structures and procedures required to safeguard
against the risks arising from activities in the workplace.

3. Safety Management Structure and Responsibilities
To implement the College Safety Statement there must be an effective safety management structure
which demonstrates the individual areas of responsibilities. This structure provides feedback via the
Safety Officer to the Directors of the Management Board who reports to the President and the
Management Board.
3.1 The President
e Incompliance with the relevant provisions under the SHWA and other occupational safety
legislation, the President has ultimate responsibility to ensure, as far as is practicable, the
safety, health and welfare at work of employees and non-employees.
e The President must ensure that all members of the Board of Directors have a clear
understanding of the key safety and health issues for the College and are apprised of the risks
likely to arise.
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

3.2 The Management Board

The Management Board oversees the management of the College and consists of the President and
nine other senior staff members from a wide range of senior roles within the college.

The Management Board:

e Is responsible for ensuring that due cognizance is given to safety and health in all
operational decisions, all academic and administrative activities, maintenance of the
campus and adaptation of buildings.

e Must understand their legal responsibilities and their role in governing safety and health.

e Must provide adequate financial resources for campus health and safety.

Reg Callanan and Ronan Fenelon have been delegated by the Management Board to co-ordinate
matters relating to Safety, Health and Welfare.

3.3 Directors of Management Board with Responsibility for Health and Safety
The Directors of the Management Board are responsible for the establishment and maintenance of an
effective Health and Safety Policy by ensuring that:

e Directors, Heads of Faculty/Department and Heads of Campus Companies and all line
managers implement and maintain compliance with the College Safety Statement.
Safety considerations are an integral part of the management program.

Necessary financial resources are available to implement the policy.

Appropriate remedial action is taken on reported accidents/incidents.

All staff are held accountable for their performance in relation to safety and health.
Incidents which cause injury/property damage or near misses are systematically reviewed.
The Safety Statement is reviewed regularly.

3.4 Head of Faculty/Department and Line Manager

The Head of Faculty/Department and Line Managers carry the responsibility and authority for safety
and health matters within their faculty/department. They must report to the Safety Coordinators or the
Safety Officer or College Safety Representative. They are responsible to ensure full implementation of
College’s Safety Statement. Each Head of Faculty/Department shall take all reasonable steps within
their power to ensure as far as is reasonably practicable the safety, health and welfare at work of all
employees within their respective faculties/departments.

Each Head of Faculty/Department and Line Manager shall ensure the following:

e Procedures for doing a job safely are provided for each employee.

e There are no hazards left uninvestigated within their faculty/department. When a hazard is
identified the line manager shall examine the various options available to eliminate the hazard.
If the problem can only be resolved by significant expenditure he/she shall present the options
available to the Safety Officer.

e The implementation of the College Health and Safety policies and procedures within his/her
faculty. The Head of Faculty/Department can nominate a Safety Representative to oversee
matters relating to the management of safety of individuals, buildings and/or equipment.

e All persons under his/her control are competent to carry out their work and have received
adequate training in safety procedures.

e The training needs of each of their employees is identified ensuring each has the necessary
training necessary to secure their own safety and that of anyone affected by their actions. This
training may be identified at the Performance Management meetings.

e The safety and health of all persons working, studying or visiting their faculty/department, so
far as is reasonably practical.

e Persons under his/her control have read and understand the Safety Statement.

e All hazards in the faculty/department are identified and risks controlled.

e The Safety Statement addresses all safety, health and welfare issues relevant to the
faculty/department.

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

e Arranging for the provision of adequate and appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE)
for their employees, as identified in the risk assessment.

e All accidents/incidents/near misses which cause personal injury/property damage must be
reported on the Accident/Incident Report form. For details of the form/book location please
see Appendix 1.

e Immediate inspection of any hazard reported and take the required corrective action, and
reporting to one of the Safety Coordinators.

e All hazards are checked after they have been remedied to ensure safe working conditions have
been restored.

e All moving parts of machinery are adequately guarded.

e All new machines or equipment conform to current regulations for health and safety.

e As far as is reasonably practicable, that adequate information will be available for any
materials or equipment purchases to ensure its safe use and care.

e Good housekeeping is observed; fire equipment and all exits are maintained and kept free of
obstructions.

e The Evacuation and First Aid procedures are implemented and that sufficient Fire
Marshals/First Aid personnel are appointed in their faculty/department.

e Line managers are made aware of and Fire Marshals are trained in, fire and emergency
procedures. A list of the Fire Marshals is listed in Appendix 2 of this Safety Statement.

e Participation in safety inspections with the Safety Coordinators and their Safety representative
if required to do so.

e Safety standards are maintained by taking disciplinary action if and where appropriate.

e Safety Statement is reviewed at least annually.

e Report any health and/or safety issues to the Health and safety Officer, Safety Coordinators or
any safety representative on site.

e Ensure any new member of staff (temporary or permanent) are familiar with the College's Fire
and Emergency Procedures via their Line Manager.

3.5 Campus Companies are:

Bellerophon Limited, Griffith College Property Partnership, Griffith College Publications Limited,
Griffith College Marketing, Mid-West Business Institute GCD Limited, Griffith College Professional
Accountancy Limited, Campus Information Technology Limited, Sino-Irish College of Accounting
and Finance Limited, Griffith College Co-Ownership, Clarus Press Limited, Marymount Language
Academy Limited, Colldeen Ltd (Registered in Northern Ireland) and any Parent Company Associated
Company or Subsidiary of any of the above.

The board of each company has ultimate responsibility to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable,
the safety, health and welfare at work of employees. Day to day responsibility for safety and health
matters rests with the company manager or campus manager of each company. Their responsibilities
are the same as those for Head of Faculty/Departments.

3.6 Campus Services/Facilities Department
The Facilities Department has a central role in Health and Safety Management on campus. It is
responsible for:
e The maintenance of all College buildings, facilities and grounds.
The provision of fire detection and prevention measures.
The provision of security services.
The provision of maintenance services.
The provision of housekeeping services.
The management of external contractors engaged in any or all activities listed above to ensure
in so far as is reasonably practical the safety, health and welfare of all campus users who may
be affected by the works.
e Ensuring that the College, as the ‘Client’ in construction projects, complies in particular with
the Safety, Health & Welfare at Work (Construction) Regulations 2013.
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

3.7 The Campus Services/Facilities Manager
The Campus Services/Facilities Manager must receive, prior to the Contractor commencing work:

1.

Evidence that the Contractor is adequately insured for award of damages which may be
made to any of their employees injured/contracting a disease arising out of, or in the
course of, their employment.

A copy of the Contractors’ Safety Statement at the pre-contract stage which will be placed
on their file.

3.8 Contractors
Each Contractor must:

Ensure that his/her employees/sub-contractors are competent with adequate training to
perform the tasks they are required to do.

Supply, and his employees must wear, any necessary protective equipment to protect them
from any dangers that may exist in the College's premises.

Erect and maintain scaffolding and other access equipment used by his employees in
accordance with current regulations and Code of Practice.

Ensure all plant and equipment brought onto site by him/her must be safe and in good
working order, fitted with any necessary guards and safety devices and with any necessary
certificates available for checking.

Not bring power tools or electrical equipment of greater voltage than 110 volts onto the
campus. All transformers, generators, extension leads, plugs and sockets must be suitable
for industrial use, and in good condition. If it is necessary to use equipment operating
from a 240 volt supply, a residual current device with a rated tripping current of 30M A
and operating a 30M.SEC must be used.

Not use any defective equipment.

Not use any of the College's tools, ladders or other equipment.

Contact the Campus Services/Facilities Manager or their representative prior to starting
any contract. project, and receive approval for the work plan to ensure compliance with
contract safety requirements.

Familiarize themselves with all fire exits and emergency escape routes and procedures.
Provide a hot work permit certificate to the Campus Services/Facilities Manager or their
representative, if required and will not start such work without adequate provisions being
in place before works begin, during works and after works are completed. For example a
fire extinguisher is present, all flammable materials are removed from the works area to a
safe distance and works area is inspected at a suitable time after works are completed to
ensure that there is no ignition or re-ignition of a flame.

Keep all exit routes and stairways clear of working materials and equipment to allow
evacuation in an emergency.

Ascertain the existence and location of electrical cables, drains, gas mains and water
mains. If present, make provision for the safe working methods to take these
utilities/services into account.

Remove all hazardous equipment and materials at the end of each working day.

Carry out work in a clean and orderly manner.

Ensure that they have first aid arrangements for their employees.

3.9 Safety Officer
The Health and Safety Officer has the following responsibilities:

Report to the Directors of the Management Board all employee welfare, health and safety
issues.

Investigate and follow up on accidents and dangerous occurrences in the College.

Assist management in ensuring the safety and health of employees and the protection of
students, contractors and visitors against accidental injury or loss.

Inform contractors of the College fire safety precautions and receive assurance that they
will be respected and complied with.

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Ensure that statutory examinations are carried out on plant and equipment and records

maintained in the General Register.

Ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that when contractors and sub-contractors are

on the premises, employees, students, visitors and other third parties likely to be affected

are advised of all hazards arising from the work undertaken.

Contact the main contractor and the relevant faculty/department when it appears that

unsafe work practices are being followed and take appropriate actions.

Ensure that all contractors and sub-contractors have a written Safety Statement.

Ensure that all containers of chemicals received, stored and/or used are correctly labeled.

Obtain from the vendor a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for all chemicals in regular

use. Ensure that they are readily available to all employees.

Advise on legislative changes, standards and code of practice.

Forecast (subject to funding) annual departmental expenditure and work to a set Health

and Safety budget.

Approve the expenditure of funds to support the College's safety programme.

Report on the prescribed form, in accordance with current legislation, are forwarded to the

Health and Safety Authority, for any work related accident:

o Which causes the death of any employee

o That prevents an employee from performing the normal duties of their employment
for more than "three calendar days not including the day of the accident."

Health and Safety information is disseminated within the College, including the

examination and evaluation of all communications received from various inspectors

appointed under current legislation.

Assist in the update/revision of the College Safety Statement.

Ensure the Board of Management is kept informed on the effectiveness of the College's

health and safety program.

With reference to fire and emergency situations: The Safety Officer will ensure that:

Fire and emergency plans are established and implemented.

Night security guard has adequate plans and information for dealing with emergencies
outside normal working hours.

Emergency evacuation points are established for all faculties/departments.

Emergency evacuation drills are conducted twice a year.

With reference to electricity: - The Safety Officer shall ensure that:

10

Regular inspections of all electrical installations/equipment will be carried out and
corrective action taken when defects are reported.

All equipment purchased, rented or leased is protected by an earth wire, or is labeled
"double insulated" and that the equipment is suitably identified including its electrical
rating, and the manufactures name.

Adequate protection is being provided for equipment exposed to the elements, and to
adverse conditions such as damp, dust, etc.

All new electrical installations have been tested by a competent person.

All distribution boards have been identified and that there is adequate access and egress to
all distribution boards.
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

3.10 Safety Coordinators
The Safety Coordinator is responsible for the implementation of the College's Safety Statement. The
Safety Coordinators shall ensure:

e Safety and health factors are taken into consideration in all campus management decision-
making.

e Safety responsibility is properly assigned and accepted at all levels.

e The Safety Statement is understood at all levels.

e Accident and near miss investigation reports are submitted.

e Recording and analysis of injury/incident reports. Ensure appropriate corrective action has
been taken to reduce or eliminate the possibility of recurrence.

e Highlight weekly of any accidents/incidents to the Safety Officer.

e The development and implementation of the College Emergency Procedures in
conjunction with the Safety Representative, Safety Officer and other appropriate senior
staff.

e Maintain an up to date register of all Fire Marshals and First Aiders.

e Maintain a folder of information that can be handed over to the Fire Brigade should then
have to attend an emergency event on the campus.

e Obtain the services of a competent consultant for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is
reasonably practicable, the safety and health at work of employees and non-employees,
were necessary.

The Safety Coordinators are responsible for liaising with the HR department to provide training
necessary for employees to secure their own safety and that of anyone affected by their actions.
In particular, the Safety Coordinators will:
e Source and provide training in emergency evacuation procedures, first aid and
firefighting.
e Ensure there is an adequate number of trained and qualified personnel available to
administer first aid and act as Fire Marshals.
e Ensure that first-aiders are provided with the necessary first aid supplies and equipment.
e Ensure that suitable training is provided for the College Safety Representative.

3.11 Employees (Including Lecturers)

The SHWA, 2005 sets out duties of employees.

An employee shall not, on entering into a contract of employment, misrepresent himself/herself to an
employer with regard to their level of health and safety training. Each employee has a responsibility
for his/her safety and health while at work, which extends to taking reasonable care of any other
person who would be affected by his/her acts or omissions while at work.

Your duties as an employee are as follows:

¢ Cooperate with management and other employees so far as is reasonably practicable as a safe
and healthy workplace can only be satisfactorily achieved and maintained by mutual co-
operation between all employees.
Comply with health & safety legislation.
Not to endanger the safety of yourself or others.
Not to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol at work.
Undergo any reasonable medical or other tests if requested to do so by your employer.
Use any suitable appliances or Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) where provided.
Not to intentionally or recklessly interfere with or misuse any appliance or equipment of PPE.
Fire prevention and safety equipment must not be damaged or interfered with and must always
be accessible. Keep emergency exits, stairs and corridors free from obstruction.
Store goods in the designated areas.
e Cables of phones, electrical equipment etc. must be placed in a way not to cause a trip.

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Co-operate with your employer and any other person to enable the employer comply with any
relevant statutory provisions.

e Attend all health & safety training provided by your employer.

e Report defects in equipment or systems to your line manager.

e Maintain your work area and department in a safe manner.

e To adhere to the responsibilities assigned to you in this safety statement documentation.

e To familiarise yourself with the emergency evacuation plan.

e If smoking, only do so in areas on the campus that it is permitted and to do so away from
doors and only during designated breaks.

e Adhere to the College Dignity at work policy (Policy 10)

e Not enter any area that you are not authorised to do so. Only authorised employees may enter
restricted areas (e.g. rooftops, gas storage area, generator area, electrical rooms, plant rooms)

e Not park a car or any other vehicle in the Yellow Boxes (which must be kept clear for the
emergency services at all times), disabled car parking spaces or non-car parking spaces.

e Employees using VDUs must follow occupational guidelines.

e Report all spillages to the Housekeeping Team, ensure the area is restricted until the spill has
been removed.

e Safety signs must be obeyed and not interfered with.

e To immediately report to your Line Manager on the in-house incident/accident report form:

© any accident resulting in loss or injury
© any incident that could have resulted in loss or injury

e If you are the injured party you are also required to co-operate with the investigation of the

accident and the completion of the in-house accident /incident report form.
3.12 Employer

Section 26 of the SHWA, 2005, requires every employer to consult with their employees for the
purpose of the arrangements that will enable the employees to co-operate effectively in promoting and
developing measures to ensure their safety, health and welfare at work.

The Act provides employees with the right to make representations to, and consult with, the employer
on matters of safety, health and welfare in their place of work.

Employees who wish to raise a safety concern should in the first instance contact their Line Manager,
either directly or through the Safety Coordinators or Health and Safety Officer.

3.13 Health and Safety Organisation Chart

 

President of the College

 

 

Board of Directors

 

 

 

Management Board

 

 

2 Members of Management Board responsible for H&S

 

 

Safety Officer

 

 

Safety Coordinators

 

 

 

 

Head of a ane Managers

 

Employees/Contractors

 

 

Students/Visitors

 

 

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

4. COMMUNICATION OF THE SAFETY STATEMENT
The Safety Statement represents the Colleges commitment to safety, health and welfare of all those
affected by its actions. In order for it to be effective it must be implemented. To ensure that this occurs
the following actions will be taken:
e This safety statement will be sent to all staff and lecturers.
e The Heads of Faculty/Department and program directors will further inform all staff under
their responsibility of the location of the Safety Statement and of their requirement to read and
understand it.

4.1 Resources

The following college resources of personnel, time and finances, are devoted to the health and safety

and welfare of employees:

e Safety policies and procedures, risk assessments

Health and Safety related training

Time spent on the follow-up of accidents and incidents

Safety as an agenda item at senior management meetings

Engaging reputable contractors to maintain and service fire protection equipment and

machinery and to maintain all buildings and equipment in a clean and safe condition.

e Ensuring that all new buildings/refurbishments comply with relevant fire and health
and safety standards.

e Providing on-going funding for competent health and safety advisors both internal and
external as required.

e Allocating Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as required.

e Allocating to Faculties and Departments, by way of their annual budgets, sufficient
resources to ensure that health and safety issues can be tackled in a phased, prioritized
fashion at local level.

e Allocating an annual budgetary sum to the Campus Services/Facilities Department to
support the implementation of various health and safety programme and projects
across the campus.

4.2 Hazards and Risks

A Hazard is defined as anything that has the potential to cause harm, injury or an adverse health on a
person/s.

A Risk is defined as the likelihood that a person/s may be harmed, injured or suffer an adverse health
effect if exposed to a hazard.

Once the hazard has been identified and the level of risk assessed then the necessary steps can be taken
to control, eliminate or minimize the risk to safety.

4.3 Hazard Identification

This is the first step in the control of health and safety risks and involves a critical appraisal of all
activities. In performing hazard identification there will be ongoing critical appraisal of all routine and
non-routine activities throughout the College.

Hazards are classified into three categories:
1. Physical hazards
2. Chemical hazards
3. Psychological hazards

 

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

1. Physical Hazards

The following are a list of physical hazards — it is not exhaustive.
e Manual Handling
Equipment
Slips/Trips/Falls

Fire

Machinery/moving parts
Electricity

Hot substances

Poor housekeeping
Vibration

Sharps

2. Chemical Hazards
The following are a list of chemical hazards.
e Gases

Dust

Fumes

Liquids

Vapor

Solvents

Acids

Aerosols
Carcinogens
Sensitizing agents
Allergens

3. Psychological Hazards

The following are a list of psychological hazards.
e Bullying/Harassment

Stress

Inadequate training

Inadequate supervision

Long hours

4.4 Risk Assessment

A Risk Assessment is an examination of what hazards in the workplace could cause harm so that a
decision can be made on whether enough controls are in place to prevent harm occurring.

Risk assessment is required under Section 19 of the Safety, Health & Welfare at Work Act 2005.

The risks will be characterized into High, Medium or Low.
HIGH RISK = there is a possibility of serious injury (fatalities, amputations, serious diseases,
paralysis) to a number of people and a possibility of significant injury (moderate injury, damages,

lacerations) and material loss.

MEDIUM RISK = there is a possibility of minor injury (cuts, abrasions, sprains) to a number of
people and a possibility of some material loss.

LOW RISK = there is a possibility of little injury to a small number of people or the risk of material
loss is low.
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

The steps are:
1. Carry out the risk assessment.
2. Decide who might be harmed and how.
3. Decide the control measures to prevent the hazard occurring, to eliminate it or substitute
it as far as reasonably practicable.
4. Record the findings.
The Risk Assessments depend on the following:
e Is anyone exposed to the hazard
Is the hazard likely to cause injury
How serious would the injury be
Is the hazard well controlled
Is the level of supervision adequate
How long people were exposed and what are the levels of exposure, (temperature, chemicals,
noise, heavy loads, etc.) that should not be exceeded.

The Safety, Health and Welfare at Work Act requires employers to carry out identification of hazards
and an assessment of risks posed by those hazards. The ultimate goal of hazard identification and risk
assessment is to devise and implement appropriate controls to ensure, as is reasonably practicable, that
the risk is reduced to an acceptable level.

Each Head of Faculty/Department and Line Manager must:
e Identify their significant hazards
e Assess the magnitude of the risk which arises
e Inform the Health and Safety Officer of their concerns. This information will be forwarded to
the Safety Coordinator to update the safety statement documentation.

Head of Faculty/Department and Line Managers: When a hazard is identified he/she shall
examine the various options available to eliminate the hazard. If the problem can only be resolved by
significant expenditure he/she shall present the options available to the Health and Safety Officer.
Where the risk cannot be reduced to an acceptable level and finance is not available to implement
appropriate controls then the activity must cease or the area must be closed off.

5.0 CONTROL MEASURES
Risks are adequately controlled if:
e Adequate information, instruction or training is provided
e Adequate systems and procedures are provided
e Hazard meets the legal requirement standard
e Precautions comply with recognized industry standard, good practice, reduce risk as far as
reasonably practicable.

If risks are not adequately controlled then:

e Remove the risk completely

e Substitute

e Organize work to reduce the exposure to the hazard

e Apply safety measures (machine guards, ventilation, mechanical handling methods etc.) to
reduce the risk

e Administer controls (supervision, etc.) which reduce or eliminate exposure to the hazard by
adherence to procedures or instructions

e Ensure clean and tidy workplace

e Issue personal protective equipment (PPE)

15

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

5.1 Physical Hazards
These hazards include furniture and work equipment, noise, vibration, light, temperature, access to
heights and violence.

Control Measures — Furniture and Work Equipment

e The College will purchase furniture and work equipment which is sound and suitable for use
and which complies with appropriate Irish and European standards.

e All furniture and work equipment should be used solely for the purpose for which it is
intended.

e All equipment must be operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.

e Damaged furniture and work equipment which is deemed unsafe should be removed
immediately from use and the Campus Services/Facilities Department informed to ensure it is
stored to prevent its accidental reuse before repair or replacement.

e Staff responsible for purchasing furniture and work equipment must ensure the selection
process has taken account of the specific conditions in the place of work and any additional
hazards caused by its installation.

e Staff responsible for supervising the use of furniture and work equipment must ensure it is
properly maintained.

e Work equipment, when purchased, must be maintained and tested to manufactures
recommendations and statutory requirements.

Control Measures — Noise

The noise level in the College will normally be below 85dB and therefore does not pose a risk.

If any works or activities are to take place on the campus that exceed the 85Db limit, appropriate steps
will be taken to eliminate, reduce and control noise levels to a safe level.

Control Measures — Vibration

Staff who work with machinery and/or tools which cause whole body vibration of hand/arm vibration
must wear the appropriate protective personal protective equipment. Heads of Faculty/Department are
responsible for supervising the use of PPE and to ensure the equipment is maintained in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.

Control Measures — Light

The following guidelines should be applied to ensure adequate lighting.
e Have adequate lighting for the task

Avoid glare

Avoid flicker in light sources

Avoid flicker in visual display units.

Control Measures — Temperature

Comfortable temperature levels for all work areas should be maintained. The Campus
Services/Facilities department should be contacted if temperatures are above or below comfortable
levels so that appropriate action is taken.

Control Measures — Violence

The College employs trained Security personnel who are trained in dealing with violent and
aggressive behavior and situations. Any staff member who feels under threat should phone Security
(See Appendix 1.3 for contact details). ‘

16
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Control Measures — Lone working
Staff and contractors who work after normal working hours alone or in areas of personal isolation
should take the following precautions

Inform site Security or Campus Services/Facilities that you are working after hours and
your expected finishing time.

Keep in regular contact with a member of the site Security or Campus Services/Facilities.
Where available carry a man-down device, lone working device or personal alarm.

Control Measures — Safe Access/Exit
The College will, so far as is reasonably practicable, provide and maintain a safe access and exit to and
from any employee/contractors place of work and for students and visitors while on the campus.

°

Emergency exit doors and exit routes are clearly sign-posted and Heads of
Faculty/Department and line mangers have responsibility for ensuring that such doors and
exit routes are kept clear of obstructions.

Suitable equipment is provided such as foot-stools, ladders or cherry-picker where access
to high levels is necessary, such as for maintenance or to access goods stored above head
height.

The security staff control the movement of cars on the campus and both monitor and
control traffic management on the site

Adequate lighting of all areas around the campus, including the car-park has been
provided.

Walkways are clearly highlighted.

Users of the car-park are required to take due care and be considerate of all other car-park
users and to report any incidents or concerns to a member of the Security Staff.

The Campus Services/Facilities staff and contractors carry out routine repairs and
maintenance for both internal and external areas of the campus.

Control Measures — Safe Use of Equipment

It is College policy to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that all personnel shall be protected
from all known machinery and equipment hazards through the use of built in safety equipment
features, approved safe guards, training and operating procedures. New equipment will display CE
marking to show compliance with all relevant safety standards.

eoe3ee

17

The Head of Faculty/Department will ensure when purchasing new machinery/equipment
that the vendor provides written instructions for the safe use and care of the machines or
equipment, operating instructions, maintenance procedures and safety devices.

Staff will only operate/clean the machinery/equipment when trained to do so.

Staff will take great care when using pins, staplers and guillotines. When safety features
are incorporated into equipment, these must be used.

The Head of Faculty/Department will ensure operating instructions are available for all
machines/equipment.

Machinery must only be used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.

The operator of any machinery or equipment on site must be trained to do so before use.
All guards must be fitted correctly, robust, working and be effective.

The area around any machine or piece of equipment must be clean, tidy and free from
obstruction.

The Head of Faculty/Department must be informed immediately if any piece of machinery
or equipment that is under their remit is not working, or not working correctly.

The appropriate PPE must be worn.

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Control Measures — Manual Handling
Manual handling includes lifting, pushing, pulling, carrying or putting down a load. The main injuries
associated with manual handling are:

e Back strain/slipped disc.

e Hernias

e Lacerations, crushing of hands or fingers

e Bruised or broken toes or feet

e Various sprains, strains, etc.
Legislation advocates the use of mechanical equipment for the handling of loads by employees.
Employees are given manual handling training where applicable.

Line Manager's Responsibilities

It is the responsibility of all Managers to eliminate the need for any unnecessary manual handling.

It is the responsibility of all Managers to ensure that no person will be expected to lift, carry, or move
a load that would be likely to cause him / her injury. This includes all pushing, pulling, carrying,
putting down, or moving of any load and where possible, a trolley or hand truck must be provided.

When manual handling is unavoidable, the work must be planned and personnel engaged in lifting
must utilize safe manual handling techniques and use any lifting aids and equipment available

In planning the work to be done, the line manager must assess the risks presented by the:
e Working Environment

Characteristics of the Load

Individual capacity

Physical effort required

Distance involved.

Frequency of Task.

The Line Manager must ensure an.employee is not put at risk because he/she:
e Is physically unsuited to carry out the task in question
Is wearing unsuitable clothing, footwear, or other personal affects.
Does not have adequate or appropriate knowledge or training.
Ensure that no employee will lift or attempt to lift any object of excessive weight
Ensure the characteristics of the load is examined prior to lifting as the manual handling of
a load may present a risk of back injury if it is:
o Too heavy or too large.
o Unwieldy or difficult to grasp.
o Unstable or has contents likely to shift.
o Positioned in a manner requiring it to be held or manipulated at a distance
from the trunk, or with a bending or twisting of the trunk;
Likely, because of its contours and. or consistency, to result in injury to
workers particularly in the event of a collision
o Ifan object is too heavy, help must be obtained (as a guide, a load which
exceeds fifty percent of the individuals body weight should be regarded as a
risk).
o Examine the load for splinters, sharp edges, projecting nails and sharp wire.
© Before a load is lifted, obstructions must be removed, snags must be noted
and a space cleared where the load is to be set down. Ensure that it is possible
to see over the load when it is being carried.

°

Staff will be trained in manual handling as required.

18
Rey-3 (Mar 2019)

To Lift:

Stand with your feet slightly apart.

Bend the Knees.

Keep the back straight though not necessarily vertical, and ensure the spine is not bent over at
the bottom.

A firm grip should be obtained with the palm of the hand and the root of the fingers - using the
finger tips means more effort and more chance of dropping the load.

Arms should be as close to the body as possible so that the body takes the weight instead of
the fingers, wrist arm and shoulder muscles. If possible, the opposite corners of the object
should be gripped.

Lifting should be done by the thigh muscles by straightening the legs, lift by easy stages, i.e.
from floor to knee and from knee to carrying position.

When carrying, do not change grip - rest the load on some firm support and then change.
Move in the direction of your feet; do not twist your truck to change direction.

To set the load down, reverse the lifting procedure.

Gloves should be worn when handling sharp or slippery objects.

Standing with heavy loads should be avoided.

Ensure that the route, over which the load is being carried, is clear and free from obstructions
to prevent trips or falls.

When a load is being carried by more than one person, the same basic principles must apply as above.
People must work as a team and be given instructions by one person only. Wearing rings on fingers is
not recommended.

Control Measures — Electricity

Electrical installations and repairs must be carried out by a competent electrician.

All new electrical equipment will comply with the required CE quality standard.

Ensure that suitable precautions are taken when working near overhead lines, near electrical
boards and that fuses and circuit breakers are correctly rated for the circuit they protect.

All portable electric tools are operated at 110 volts or battery.

All connections to power points are made by plugs or are electrically hard wired.

Faulty or suspect equipment, including any signs of damage to wires, plugs, sockets etc., must
be reported to the Campus Services/Facilities Department immediately.

All-defective equipment must be removed from service until repairs have been carried out or
replaced if repairs cannot be carried out.

Sockets are not to be overloaded.

All electrical equipment must be electrically isolated before any works are carried out on it.
Before use all electrical equipment must be examined for any sign of damage or defect before
use.

The Campus Services/Facilities Manager will ensure that:

e Inspections of electrical installations/equipment will be carried out as required and
remedial action taken when defects are reported.

e All equipment purchased, rented or leased is protected by an earth wire, or is labeled
“double insulated" and that the equipment is suitably identified including its electrical
rating, and the manufactures name.

e Adequate protection is being provided for equipment exposed to the elements, and to
adverse conditions such as damp, dust, etc.

e All new electrical installations have been tested by a competent person and certified.

e All distribution boards have been identified and that there is adequate access and egress to
all distribution boards.

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Employees will inspect electrical equipment to ensure:

e The plug is in good condition and of the correct type;

e The cable is properly secured with a cord clamp over the outer insulation & is free from
external damage and “taped up” repairs.

e Both the appliance and the power socket are switched off before plugging the appliance
into the power supply.

e Their hands are dry before operating switches or using electrical equipment

e Extension leads are fitted with proper fused plugs and NEVER make connections by
inserting a bare wire into a socket.

e Leads are not frayed or near pinch points, sharp objects, heat, water and rough surfaces

e Leads will not cause a tripping hazard.

e Employees will inspect electrical equipment for obvious defects before use.

Electrical Defects

1,

Immediately disconnect the equipment from the electric supply if is safe to do so.

2. Place an "Out of Order - Do Not Use" notice on the equipment.

3. Ifthe equipment cannot be unplugged, it must be electrically isolated by an electrician or
suitable qualified person

4. Report the defect to his/her Line Manager.

5. The equipment must not be used until the problem has been resolved.

6. Never attempt to carry out any repairs on electrical equipment, unless you qualified to do so.

Electric Shock

1. Immediately disconnect the electrical equipment from the electric supply (if possible and safe
to do so)

2. Never attempt to carry out electrical repairs unless you are qualified to do so.

3. To avoid electric shock, keep electric wiring away from wet floors and surfaces.

4. Ensure that plugs are fully placed in power sockets.

5. Ifyou or anyone else has suffered an electrical shock, contact a site first aider for treatment
and inform a member of the Campus Services/Facilities team immediately.

6. Never use electrical equipment outdoors unless it is designed for that purpose

Control Measures.— Slips, Trips and Falls

The College shall, as far as is reasonably practicable, ensure all floors, steps, stairs, corridors, and
ladders, are of sound construction, properly maintained and kept free from obstructions or from
substances likely cause a person to slip, trip or fall.

Housekeeping staff have the following responsibilities:

When washing floor, always erect warning signs. These signs must not be removed until the
floor is dry.

Tidy up trailing buffer/vacuum machine leads, run cables along walls.

Observe good-housekeeping practices at all times.

All employees have the following responsibilities:

20

e Place furniture, fittings and equipment so that personnel can move about without

colliding with sharp corners of desks, cabinets etc.,

Place filing cabinets so that there is ample room when a drawer is fully open.

Do not leave drawers of desks or cabinets open to be stumbled over.

Do not open more than one drawer of a filing cabinet at a time.

Be careful with metal furniture, particularly shelves/drawers that may have sharp edges.

Do not have trailing electrical cables. Keep cables near walls or within special cable

covers.

e Do not leave paper (e.g. printout sheets, files, invoices, etc.) on the floor or adjacent to
computer printers, photocopiers etc. when not in use.
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

e Store paper in the areas provided.

e Stairways, Reception and Corridors shall be properly maintained and kept free from any
materials that could give rise to unsafe conditions. They will not be used as storage areas.

e All parcels and packages must be removed from the reception area immediately on arrival.

e Carry files/ boxes to ensure vision is not obstructed particularly if moving up or down
stairs/steps.

e Waste paper bins must be used.

e All rubbish must be cleared away regularly.

e Broken glass and other sharp objects must be disposed of carefully and NEVER in a waste
paper bin. :

e All offices and work-stations must be left in a tidy condition each evening, with all desk
and other surfaces neatly arranged and nothing left on the floors.

e Use safe footwear provided to avoid slipping.

e Use ladder or foot stool to gain access to heights. Always observe the correct use of
ladders at all times.

e Ensure that any spillages are dealt with safely and safety signs must be erected until this is
done.

e Report any slip/trip hazard to the Head of Faculty/Department or Line Manager.

e Report any area with defective lighting to the Head of Faculty/Department or Line
Manager.

Control Measures — Visual Display Units (VDUs), Work stations and Breaks

VDU work demands can vary widely depending on the particular task being undertaken and may vary
from those that require a very high level of concentration and vigilance to more routine and infrequent
activities.

Legislation sets down minimum requirements for working with VDUs which also cover the operator,
the desk, the chair and the work-stations.

VDU’s:

Like other common electrical devices (irons, toasters, televisions, florescent lights, etc.), WDUs can
produce certain types of radiation which is negligible and does not constitute a health hazard, or cause
permanent eye damage.

The image on the screen will be stable, there will be no flickering.

The screen will be free of reflective glare and reflections liable to cause discomfort.

The keyboard shall have a matt surface to avoid reflective glare.

Workstations:

Workstations shall be arranged so that the general use of the equipment shall not be a source of risk to
the user.

Lighting conditions should be of an appropriate standard to ensure contrast between screen and
background environment. Possible disturbing glare and reflections on the screen or other equipment
shall be prevented by coordinating the layout of the workstations and the artificial light sources.
Where necessary local illumination will be provided. However, the light from such a lamp must not
impinge on the display screen or surrounding area.

The chair shall be stable and allow the user a comfortable position and freedom of movement. The seat
will be adjustable in height and the seat back will be adjustable in height and tilt.

A foot rest will be available to any user who requires one.

Work Breaks:

If display screen work involves intensive use of the keyboard or reading the screen, or a mixture of the
two, the work should be broken by periods of non-intensive, non-display screen work. The line
manager will assist in organizing work to ensure the employee receives suitable breaks in VDU work.
Short breaks away from the screen, e.g. five to ten minutes following fifty to sixty minutes of

21

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

continuous screen and keyboard work is likely to be more beneficial than a fifteen minute break every
two hours.

If a staff member experiences discomforts such as hand, shoulder or eyestrain, they should bring it to
the attention of their Line Manager immediately.

Control Measures — Storage
Line Managers must ensure:
e That adequate storage is provided in their department.
e Where necessary, ensure shelving is properly secured and sharp edges are removed.
e The hazards of jewelry creating a risk of fingers and limbs being trapped in metal rack
units must be brought to the notice of staff.
e All chemicals, equipment and materials are stored correctly and in accordance material
safety data sheets and manufacturers recommendations.
Employees must:
e Where possible place heavy items on lower shelves
e Not overload shelves.
e Never overload top drawers of filing cabinets and desk drawers or open more than one
drawer at a time as this may cause the cabinet or drawer to tip over.
Follow their line managers or safety representative guidance and instruction on correct
storage.

Access to Heights
To access high shelves a stepladder or step stool must be used and these can be provided by the
Facilities department. It is not permitted to stand on chairs, desks, shelves, racking, boxes etc.

Use of Ladders:
Before using a stepladder, check the following condition to ensure it is safe:
e All hardware is tight, or secure, as necessary
All step rungs are present, not coated in grease, oil, cracked or loose.
The ladder assembly is rigid enough to take your weight
The front and back feet are opened to their full extent permitted by the cords or restrains.
That all four feet are firmly on the ground so that the ladder does not wobble.
Never take heavy or bulky objects, which may cause it to overbalance, or them to drop the
object and cause injury to others.
e Never work from the toe step of a ladder unless it is on the platform type and fitted with a
hand-rail.
e Take care when reaching from a sideways position as this could result in the ladder
overturning, or the loss of balance.

5.2 Chemical Hazards

The College has to use chemical substances. These range from detergents and aerosol sprays to
corrective fluids. The College recognizes that the use of chemicals entails some risk to personnel or
the environment either through normal handling or accidental spillage. The College ensures, so far as
is reasonably practicable, the safety and prevention of risk to health at work in connection with the use
of any article or substance.

Control Measures — Material Data Sheets (MSDS)

Material safety data sheets are available for all chemicals used within the College.

All Faculties and departments need to maintain MSDS’s for any chemical that they are using, storing
or disposing

MSDS are an important source of information and any employee using a chemical must become
familiar with the appropriate sheet.

22
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

The MSDS gives the following information:

Hazard identification
First aid measures
Firefighting measures
Accidental release
Handling and storage

e Exposure controls and personal protection etc.
It is the College's policy that all chemicals used within the College will have a precautionary label on
the container and will, as far is reasonably practicable, provide additional information through the
provision of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs)

Employees must:

Read and understand all precautionary labels on chemical containers and MSDSs.

Look for the important information - is the substance toxic, harmful, corrosive or an
irritant etc.? For example, the label on a container of typical office correction fluid will
warn that the liquid is flammable and is harmful if inhaled or swallowed.

Use, handle, store and dispose of the chemicals as directed by the above information and
use any necessary protective equipment and clothing.

Control Measures — Carcinogens
Safety, Health and Welfare at Work (Carcinogens) Regulations, 2015 specify certain measures
necessary to protect workers from the risks resulting from exposure to carcinogens including:

Risk assessment of carcinogen use in the workplace

Implementation of appropriate steps to eliminate or minimise exposure

Maintain an up to date list of employees at risk of exposure to carcinogens. The list will
be complied based on information obtained from the Heads of Faculty/Departments where
carcinogens are in use. Employees exposed to carcinogens in the course of their work are
to be consulted and provided with information and training on the hazards and risks of
carcinogen use and the measures to deal with unforeseen risks

Appropriate records of assessments will be maintained by the Faculty/Department and the
Health and Safety Officer.

Control Measures — Chemical Usage

e Chemicals should be used strictly in accordance with the manufacturer instructions and the
MSDS.

e Chemicals should be stored as per the MSDS.

e Empty containers should be disposed of safely as per the MSDS

e All chemicals must be labeled

e Smoking, eating and drinking is prohibited where dangerous substances are being used and
stored.

e Employees must be aware of warning symbols on the containers.

e Dangerous chemicals must be kept in minimum quantities and stored appropriately.

e Chemicals and dangerous substances should be eliminated/substituted by a less dangerous
substances as far as is reasonably practicable.

e Provide adequate ventilation if noxious fumes have been emitted.

e Protective clothing must be worn if this is a requirement when using the chemical.

e Material safety data sheets (MSDS) must be observed before using any chemical.

23

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Housekeeping staff have the following responsibilities:
e Wear gloves when handling detergents, cleaning agents.
e Do not mix cleaning materials unless permitted by instructions.
e Bleaches should never be mixed with toilet cleaners or other cleaning products as they give
rise to toxic chlorine fumes.
e Should be aware where the MSDS for a chemical is available from and what the requirements
for each chemical is in relation to usage, storage, dilution, disposal etc.

5.3 Psychological Hazards
Psychological hazards include Bullying, Harassment and Stress

Control Measures — Prevention of Bullying and Harassment

The Health and Safety Authority! defines Bullying as ‘Workplace bullying is repeated inappropriate
behavior, direct or indirect, whether verbal, physical or otherwise, conducted by one or more persons
against another or others, at a place of work and/or in the course of employment, which could
reasonably be regarded as undermining the individual’s right to dignity at work’. An isolated incident
of the behavior described in this definition may be an-affront to dignity at work but as a once off
incident is not considered to be bullying.

All staff are required to be familiar with and to adhere to the College Dignity at Work policy (policy
number 10). This policy is available from the HR department and should be checked regularly for
updates.

The Employment Equality Acts define Harassment as ‘Harassment is any form of unwanted conduct
related to any of the discriminatory grounds, being conduct which has the purpose or effect of
violating a person’s dignity and creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive
environment for the person’.

The Acts sets out that the unwanted conduct may consist of acts, requests, spoken words, gestures, or
the production, display or circulation of written words, pictures, or other material.

All staff are required to be familiar with and to adhere to the College Dignity at Work policy, the key
points of the policy are detailed below.

Sexual Harassment

The Employment Equality Acts define Sexual Harassment as ‘Sexual Harassment is any form of
unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature being conduct which has the
purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity and creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading,
humiliating or offensive environment for the person’.

The Acts sets out that the unwanted conduct may consist of acts, requests, spoken words, gestures, or
the production, display or circulation of written words, pictures, or other material.

It is up to each employee to decide what behavior is unwelcome, irrespective of the attitude of others,
and from whom such behavior is unwelcome. The fact that the employee has previously tolerated the
behavior does not stop him/her from deciding that it has now become unwelcome and objecting to it.

In determining whether behavior is unwelcome it is the effect of the behavior on the employee
concerned rather than the intent of the person engaging in the unwelcome behavior that is important.
The person engaging in the conduct must be made aware that the conduct is unwelcome where:
1. It is not obvious on reasonable grounds to construe the action as offensive, humiliating or
intimidating.
2. The action from the person has been acceptable in the past.
3. The employee accepts the conduct from other people.

' HSA Code of Practice for employers and employees on the prevention and resolution of Bullying at Work.

24
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Responsibilities
The Employer Responsibilities
e To ensure that adequate resources are made available resources to promote respect and dignity
in the workplace and to deal effectively with complaints of bullying and harassment.
e To ensure that the college Dignity at Work Policy is communicated to all staff
e To ensure that all staff are made aware of their responsibilities to create a working
environment which is free from bullying and harassment.

All Employees’ Responsibilities
¢ To help maintain a working environment in which the dignity of all individuals is respected.
e¢ Tocomply with the college Dignity at Work Policy.
e To ensure that their behavior does not cause offence to fellow workers or any person with
whom they come into contact during the course of their work.
e To discourage bullying and harassment by objecting to inappropriate behavior.
e To inform a Manager if they are concerned that a colleague is being bullied or harassed.

Each Line Managers’ Responsibilities
e To implement the college Dignity at Work Policy
e To make every effort to ensure that bullying and harassment does not occur, particularly in
work areas for which they are responsible.
e To deal promptly and effectively with any incidents of bullying or harassment of which they
are aware or ought to be aware.
e To explain the Dignity at Work Policy to all staff and ensure understanding and how the
complaints procedures operate.
Promote ongoing awareness of the policy among staff.
Set a good example by treating people with dignity and respect.
Be vigilant for signs of bullying and harassment and intervene before a problem escalates.
Respond sensitively to any member of staff who make a complaint of bullying or harassment.
Respond promptly to requests from employees to intervene and seek to resolve the matter
informally where appropriate.
e Ensure that an employee is not victimized for making a complaint of bullying or harassment in
good faith.
e Monitor and follow up the situation after a complaint is made so that the behavior complained
of does not recur.
e Keep a record of all complaints and how these were resolved.

Control Measures — Stress

Stress occurs when an individual perceives an imbalance between the demands placed on him/her and
his/her ability to cope. Work related stress results from an interaction of the individual and the
working environment. What is stressful for one employee may not be stressful to another employee.
An employee who has work related stress should raise the matter with his/her line manager who may
arrange for a Risk assessment to be carried out.

5.4 Control Measures — Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
PPE is defined as all equipment (including clothing affording protection against the weather) which is
intended to be worn or held by a person at work and which protects him/her against one or more risks
to his/her health or safety.
PPE includes (but is not exclusive to):

e Safety head wear

e Gloves

e Eye protection

e Safety footwear

25

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

e Safety harnesses

e Hearing protection
Where there are risks to the safety, health and welfare of employees, the College will avoid or limit
such risks whenever possible by other methods of prevention or control such as, engineering controls
or safe systems of work before resorting to the use of PPE.
The College will provide suitable PPE where the risks cannot be avoided or sufficiently reduced.

If PPE is required for your job, then you must by law, use it. Failure to do so may result in injury and
may lead to disciplinary action
Employees must:

e Use provided PPE.

e Maintain and store the PPE correctly so it is maintained in good condition.

e Beaware that a breach of rules regarding the wearing of PPE will lead to disciplinary action.

Line Mangers must:
e Inform their staff of the risks for which PPE is provided.
e Instruct and train their staff in the use of PPE.
e Supply the necessary PPE

Contractors must:
e All contractors must supply PPE for their own employees (where applicable)
e PPE must be worn by contractors as set out in their risk assessment or as per College
requirements.

Safety Head Wear

Must be worn when working in an area where there is a risk of head injuries due to falling objects, low
head clearance (low beams, pipes, equipment etc.) or extreme cold conditions or direct sunlight for
prolonged periods.

Gloves

Gloves chosen must offer the best protection for the specific and/or chemical that they are intended to
be used for. Gloves must be worn where there is specific risk to the hands, including abrasion,
temperature extremes, chemicals, electric shock or vibration.

Gloves must be changed when they are no longer fit for purpose and no longer offer the protection that
is required. They must then be disposed of properly.

Gloves must not be worn where they could get caught in a machine or if wearing them creates a
greater risk than the reason that they are being worn for.

Eye Protection

Eye protection (safety glasses with side shields, goggles, and face shield) must be worn where there is
arisk of sparks, splashes, dust, vapour etc. to the eyes.

High pressure cleaning/spray equipment and work involving power tools require safety glasses with
side shields and welding operations require tinted safety glasses with side shields.

Safety Footwear
Safety shoes are provided where hazards exist such as wet floors, falling objects or chemical splashes.
Maintenance staff, Household staff and Security Staff must wear safety shoes.

Safety Harness

These must be worn where there is a danger of falling from a height. They are located in the Campus
Services/Facilities department. Company harnesses are inspected before use and are inspected
annually by a suitably qualified person. Any equipment that is found defective is taken out of service
and repaired or replaced.

26
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Hearing Protection

Earplugs and earmuffs are provided and must be worn where the noise level is 80Db or above or if
nuisance noise is prevalent. Hearing protection must not be worn if it is dangerous to do so (e.g. area
of traffic, when an alarm will be difficult to hear while wearing)

Some employees may be required to wear other types of PPE, please contact your line manager for
assistance.

5.5 Control Measures — Segregation of Waste
Waste produced in the College is divided into:
1. Non-risk waste including household/domestic waste — food, paper, cardboard, magazines,
plastic bottles, etc.
Household/domestic waste is disposed of in office bins provided -liquid or broken glass must
not be disposed of in these bins.
2. Hazardous waste
This waste must be disposed of in an appropriate manner and through the correct waste stream
due to their hazardous properties and includes:
e Batteries
WEEE (PCs, printers, monitors, TVs)
Fluorescent tubes
Photographic waste etc.
Ink cartridges

When removing waste, employees must wear gloves and other appropriate PPE.
Waste should not be allowed to accumulate within offices.

5.6 Control Measures - No Smoking Buildings

Smoking is not permitted inside any of the College buildings.

Smoking is permitted in outdoor areas of the College (unless otherwise specified) and metal ashtrays,
which are emptied regularly, have been provided. Any outdoor areas where smoking is not allowed is
highlighted by ‘No Smoking’ signage. Smoking areas are inspected and cleaned on a regular basis.

5.7 Control Measures - Security

Employees must secure their office at the end of the day, closing all windows and doors.

Employees must contact a member of the Security team if they see any person acting suspiciously.
Security personnel are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week (See Appendix 1 for contact numbers)

5.8 Control Measures — Pregnant Employees

The College will assess any risk on the pregnancy to the safety and health of employees and any
possible effect on an employee’s pregnancy and on a breastfeeding mother resulting from any activity
at work likely to involve risk. It will take the preventative and protective measures necessary to ensure
the safety and health of pregnant and breastfeeding staff.

Procedure

All pregnant and breastfeeding employees should inform their line manager.

The line manager will review the activities carried out by the employee will they will be assessed to
ensure the continued health and safety of the employee and unborn baby or child during this period.

In an office environment the following hazards should be considered:
e Physical shocks, including direct blows to the abdomen.
e Handling a load
e¢ Movement and postures which are abrupt or severe or give rise to excessive fatigue.
e Non-ionizing radiation.

27

 

 

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

e A pregnant employee must not be exposed to these hazards unless they are adequately
controlled i.e. the hazard is reduced to a level which will not harm the pregnant woman,
the developing child or breast fed child.

If any of these risks are present, they must either be eliminated or safeguards put in place to protect the
employee’s health and safety.

These safeguards include:
e Changing the type of work, working hours, ete.
e Moving the employee to another work area.

If these safeguards are not possible then the employee must be granted safety and health leave. This is
paid leave that continues until either the conditions change or else the pregnant employee becomes
eligible for paid maternity leave.

6.0 FIRE AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

When a fire or other emergency occurs activities must be coordinated and critical decisions made,
usually under considerable stress and the first few minutes when waiting for outside assistance are
especially crucial. We must prepare for emergencies so that personal injury, property loss, and
business interruptions will be minimized.

6.1 Means of Escape
Escape routes are provided throughout the College to allow evacuation in the shortest time possible.

All staff must ensure:
e Corridors, stairs and escape routes are not obstructed and are clear for use at all times.
Exit routes are not obstructed outside the building.
Escape routes are clearly marked and adequately lit.
Escape doors are capable of being readily and easily opened at all times.
Floor coverings do not present a slip or trip hazard in any escape route.

6.2 Emergency Drills

e Emergency evacuation drills will be organized a minimum of four a year by the Safety
Coordinators in conjunction with Security/ the security team. Feedback of performance in
terms of time taken to evacuate and particular difficulties will be provided to the Safety
Officer and to the management board. Where the performance in a fire drill falls below the
required standard, further drills will be carried out to confirm that the required standard has
been met.

e The evacuation procedure is available from Security, Griffith Reception and all lecture rooms
(GCD Dublin)

6.3 Fire Alarms
The College has a number of fire detection and fire alarm systems to improve the chances the site
being altered to a possible fire and to take actions to evacuate a building and restrict the spread of fire.
The fire control panels are monitored and any fault warning will receive prompt attention by the
Security and or the Campus Services/Facilities staff. The detection systems identifies the location of
the fire.
Upon activation of the ‘Break Glass’ unit, the fire alarms will be activated in that building.
Fire alarm systems are serviced and maintained regularly.
All alarm activations are investigated by the Security staff.
e The fire alarms will be activated and the buildings evacuated whenever, a fire, or other
incident occurs which endangers persons inside the buildings.
e The "Alert" signal is sounded by an intermittent siren and staff must prepare to evacuate the
building.

28
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

e The ‘Evacuation’ signal is given by a continuous siren.
Throughout the College are:
e BREAK GLASS UNITS - to raise the alarm.
e AUTOMATIC HEAT AND SMOKE DETECTORS ~- to detect a fire.
e AUDIBLE SOUNDERS ~- to alert staff/students in the event of a fire.

6.4 Firefighting Equipment
The Campus has various Fire Fighting Equipment
Fire Extinguishers
Fire Hose Reels (Griffith College Dublin only)
Fire Blankets (Griffith College Dublin only)
Fire Hydrants (Griffith College Dublin only)
Fire Suppression Systems - Protecting cook equipment and extract ductwork (Griffith College
Dublin only)
Various types of fire extinguishers are located throughout the College to:
e Extinguish a fire
e Protect means of escape in the case of a fire
e Protect staff and students in the case of a fire
e Protect property in the case of a fire
The College uses an external expert to carry out regular inspections of the firefighting equipment and
the date of the inspection is recorded each piece of equipment.
Access to all firefighting equipment must be kept clear at all times.
Employees may not remove or tamper with any piece of firefighting equipment.
It is policy that you should not tackle a fire with firefighting equipment unless a fire hampers your
means of egress.

6.5 Emergency Lighting

Emergency lighting provides lighting to indicate the escape routes towards the exits and assists
emergency services in rescue and firefighting. This lighting is normally powered by the main
electricity supply, in emergency situations it is powered by a generator or by the battery unit in the
unit itself.

The College uses an external expert to carry out regular inspections of the emergency lighting.

6.6 Fire Doors
A fire door must not be left in the open position, unless fitted with an automatic door closure activated
by a fire alarm.

6.7 Fire Policy
The College Fire Policy outlines:
e Duties of the College Fire Marshals
e What to do on hearing the fire alarm
What to do on discovering a fire

6.8 Duties of College Fire Marshals
Each building will have at least one designated fire warden present at all times.
Fire wardens will assist in the evacuation of staff and students from a building and restrict re-entry to a
building until the ‘All Clear’ is given by the Fire Brigade, Safety Coordinator or Health and Safety
Officer.
Fire Marshals shall:

e Create awareness and promote good fire safety standards in their area.

e Know of any special hazards in his / her area

e Know how to raise the alarm.

29

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

A list of the Fire Wardens is available from the Security Department. Also see Appendix | of this
safety statement.

6.9 Fire Action - College Fire Marshals
In the case of an ‘Alert’ siren, Fire Marshals have the following duties
e Ensure everyone in the area is aware of the emergency.
e Check that toilets, shower rooms etc. are empty.
e Ensure all personnel are preparing to evacuate the building
e Closing all doors and windows.
In the case of an ‘Evacuation’ siren, Fire Marshals have the following duties
e Ensure all employees leave the building by the nearest exit and that no one is left behind
in the toilets/shower room etc.
Organize assistance for any person who requires it.
Check especially for visitors to the faculty/department
Close all doors and windows behind you when leaving the building, if it is safe to do so.
Ensure no one evacuating the building uses the passenger lift/elevator.
Guide evacuees to your/their assembly point. There are 8 assemble points on site all
clearly denoted by signage A to H.
e Inform the Safety Coordinators or their representative that you have successfully
completed evacuation of the floor or if any person is unaccounted for.
e Ensure nobody re-enters the building until the all clear is given by Fire Brigade or Safety
Coordinators or Safety Officer.

6.10 Fire Action — all employees, students and contractors.

WHAT TO DO ON DISCOVERING A FIRE

1. Make your way out of the building immediately.

2. Raise the alarm immediately by operating the nearest break glass alarm unit (Break the glass
and press the button on the alarm control).

3. Phone Security or Reception (See Appendix | for contact details). You should state the exact
location of the fire. Security/Reception will contact the Fire Brigade.

4. If there is a risk to employees/students/visitors, evacuate the immediate area to the designated
assembly point. Employees shall close all doors after them only if it is safe to do so.

5. You must only use firefighting equipment if you are trained to do so or if it is to assist your
safe exit from the building. Do not put yourself in danger. Ensure that you have a clear exit.

6. Close windows and doors in the immediate vicinity where possible to prevent the fire from
spreading if it is safe to do so.

7. Once outside, wait for further instructions from the Fire Warden on duty. Under no
circumstances should you re-enter the building until the All Clear is given by Fire Brigade,
Fire Warden or Safety Coordinators.

WHAT TO DO ON HEARING THE FIRE ALARM.
1. Close doors & windows, if safe to do so.
1. Evacuate the building using the nearest fire exit.
2. Go to the designated assembly point.
3. Teaching staff to remain with students.

6.11 First Aid

The College shall in accordance with the Safety, Health and Welfare at Work Act, General
Application Regulations 2005 provide trained and qualified personnel readily available to administer
first aid.

30
Rev-3 (Mar 219)

Responsibilities
First Aid within the College is coordinated by the Safety Coordinators.
e First Aid Training is provided through the HR Dept. and or the Safety Coordinators.
Determine where qualified first aid people are needed and numbers required
Provide training for employees who volunteer to become involved in first aid
Establish the contents of and provide the required number of first aid boxes.
Check and maintain the contents of each first aid box.
Ensure the first aid boxes are replenished as required
Ensure an up-dated list of qualified first aid people is maintained at each first aid box and
at reception.
The ae Qualified in First Aid shall:
Administer first aid as required
e Maintain the cleanliness and readiness of first aid equipment designated for their use.
e Maintain first aid records
e Provide any needed follow up information.

Note: The people qualified in First aid (or any member staff) are NOT empowered to dispense
analgesics, pills or medications. Supplies of such items will not be kept in the first aid boxes.
Individual employees and/or students who believe they might have need of these items must be
responsible for their own supplies.

e Employees must be aware of the location and contents of such boxes.

e The First Aid Box must be readily accessible to all staff in the Faculty/Department.

6.12 Fire Brigade Handover Folder

This folder contains information that is relevant for the Fire Brigade to have before dealing with a
fire or such emergency on campus. The folder will be handed over to the Fire Brigade on arrival
to campus by Security or their representative (GCD Dublin).

The information and equipment is as follows:

Gas Mains Locations

Fire Hydrant Locations

Evacuation Assembly points

Hazard Locations

Hazards — Material Safety Data Sheets

Keys and key fobs to restricted areas.

This folder is maintained and updated by the Safety Coordinators (GCD Dublin).

6.13 List of First Aid Personnel

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pre Hospital Emergency Care Clinical Levels
Level 1 CFR Cardiac First Responder

FAR First Aid Responder
Level 2 P ; ;

OFA Occupational First Aider
Level 3 EFR Emergency First Responder
Level 4 EMT Emergency Medical Technician
Level 5 P. Paramedic
Level 6 AP Advanced Paramedic

 

 

 

 

31
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

 

Griffith College Dublin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Department Level of Training Contact Details
Michael Walsh Security CFR 0868182370 or 0872711948
Liam Atkins Security OFA 0868182370 or 0872711948
Thomas Kelleher Security OFA 0868182370 or 0872711948
Shane Lynch Security OFA ‘| 9868182370 or 0872711948
Martin Foy Security CFR, OFA,EMT 0868182370 or 0872711948
Paul Walsh Student Union OFA 01-4150 Ext 497
Claire Aston Student Union OFA 01-4150 Ext 418
Eoin Carroll Computing CFR 01-4163 Ext 362
Robert McKenna Library CFR 01-4150 Ext 492
Rebecca Daly Design OFA 01-4150 Ext 423

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
     
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Griffith College Cork
Name Contact
David O’Shea 021-4507027/0860742907
Christine White 021-4507027/0877625887
Terry Ward 021-4507027/0872486497
Helen Long 021-4507027/0876313196

 

32

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

6.14 Location of First Aid Boxes

33

First Aid Kit Locations

Location Qty Contact Area
Security Hut 1 Phone 086 8182370 or 087 2711948

Students Union Reception Phone 01-4150 Ext 497

I
Facilities Office 1 Phone 086 8182370 or 087 2711948
A109 1 Phone 01-4150 Ext 494

Library front counter

 
    

   
   

    
 

 

    

  
     

      

   

Phone 01-4150 Ext 491

 

      
 

 

  
 
  
  
  

  

Design C005 Phone 01-4150 Ext 423
Phone - 01-4150 Ext 401, 402, 403,

Reception
LSMD - B003 l Phone - 01-4150 Ext 466
AF204 Office

i

   
    

   
   

  

I Phone - 01-4150 Ext 467

[Ar204 Office ‘| 1| Phone - 01-4163 Ext 357

HT Depewoor || Phone 01-4150 Ext499 |

[GHR Front office |_| Phone - 01-4163 Ext 320 or 381__|

[GHR Back office |__| Phone - 01-4163 Ext 320 or 381_|
|

 

 
 
  
   

Phone - 01-4163 Ext 320 or 381

Phone - 01-4163 Ext 320 or 381

GHR Maintenance
GHR Linen Room

   

  
  
 
 

 
     

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
   

 

 

   

  
 

 

 

 
 

 

  
 

   

 

Griffith College Wolfe Tone Street Dublin
Location Contact
Main Reception 01-4150450
Canteen/kitchen 01-4150450
Griffith College Cork
Location Qty Contact
English Language Department |_| 021-4507027
Reception 1 021-4507027
Griffith College Limerick
Location Contact
Administration 061-310031
Reception 061-310031
Staff Room 061-310031
External Training Kitchen 061-310031
English Languge Office 061-310031

 

 

 

 

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

 

6.15 Minimum Content of First Aid Boxes

Contents of First Aid Box

Adhesive Plasters
Individually Wrapped Triangular Bandages

Safety Pins
Large Individually Wrapped Sterile Un-medicated Wound
Dressings (approx. 13 x 9 cms.)

Individually Wrapped Wipes
Paramedic Shears

Pairs of Latex Gloves

Sterile Eye Wash in sealed disposable containers 300 ml ea
At least 900 ml should be provided.
Eye bath / eye cups

 

6.16 Care of an Injured Party
1) On witnessing or being told of injury where the person is still in situ and is obviously injured:

(a)

Do not move them but make as comfortable as possible and call for
trained/experienced First Aider (See section 6.13 for a list of names), Ambulance (999
or 112) or medical assistance.
- Do NOT leave the person alone
- Phone SECURITY (Ext 495 or 0868182370 or 0872711948) or RECEPTION
(See Appendix 1 for contact details)

(b) If no serious injury apparent, comfort person and offer to call for medical care,
transport, etc.

(c) Offer non-alcoholic liquid refreshment — water, tea etc. to give person time to gather
their composure.

(d) Get details of incident from injured party, where possible and record in writing

(e) Ensure as far as possible, injured party if driving, is fit to drive.

(f) If required an ambulance should be called for the injured party — Dial 999 or 112.

2) Where there is no personal injury involved:

i) Record full details of occurrence with names of any employee or witness.

ii) Note (with photo record if possible) extent of property damage or details of value of
loss.

iii) Pass all information recorded/any personal observations to your manager to be further

processed.

6.17 Automatic External Defibrillator (AED) — Griffith College Dublin and Limerick only

There is one AED on the Dublin Campus, located in the main reception in the Arthur Griffith building.
This unit is inspected weekly by Security. During out of hour’s times, the key for the reception area is
available from security.

Griffith College Limerick have a defibrillator located in the main reception.

34
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

7.0 RISK MANAGEMENT/ACCIDENT REPORTING

An accident is an unplanned, unexpected event which may result in personal injury, loss or damage to
property or equipment.

An incident is a near miss which could have resulted in an accident. All Accidents/Incidents must be
promptly reported and investigated, even if there is no injury, property loss or damage. It is important
that timely and corrective action is taken so similar accidents may be prevented.

All accidents/incidents to persons, whether or not in the employment of the College, however slight,
shall be recorded on the College Accident Reporting Form (See Appendix | for location) by the
appropriate Manager and a copy of the report sent to the Health and Safety Coordinators. All accidents
will be investigated to reduce the risk of reoccurrence.

If the accident results in absence from work for more than three days, then the Health and Safety
Coordinators must inform the Health and Safety Authority using the IRI 1 form, a copy will be filed in
the employee’s HR file.

What do you do if you have an accident?
e Promptly seek medical attention (See section 6.13 for a list of names).
e Notify your manager as soon as possible of the injury.
e Assist and provide information in determining the causes of injury.

Duties of the line manager in the case of an accident:
e Take action to ensure an injured employee is cared for.
e Promptly investigate and take appropriate action.
e Complete the Accident Report Form and submit it to the Safety Coordinators or the
Health and Safety Officer.

Duties of the Health and Safety Coordinator in the case of an accident:
e Ensure accident investigation reports are submitted.
e Review and evaluate the reports
e Provide consultation or assistance for investigation of accidents/incidents where causes
and/or corrective action are difficult to identify.
e Report occupational injuries to the Health and Safety authority in accordance with current
legislation.

Duties of the First Aiders in the case of an accident:
e Provide first aid services as required
e Provide any needed follow up information that will assist in the accident investigation.

7.1 Procedure for Reporting Health and Safety Issues
e  Allhealth and safety issues should be reported immediately to your line manager.
e Ifthe matter cannot be resolved by local management it will referred to the Safety Officer
or the Safety Coordinators.
e The Safety Officer will investigate the issue and remedy were possible. Control measures
will be put in place to eliminate the hazard. If this is not possible an alternative safer
process will be used.

REMEMBER

All accidents and incidents must be reported to your line manager, Safety Coordinators,
Safety Officer or one of their representatives.

35

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

7.2 Accident and Incident Report Form Dublin & Cork

 

ACCIDENT - INCIDENT REPORT

All Accidents resulting in personal injury, a dangerous occurrence, damage to property or a near miss
that could have resulted in injury must be reported within 24 hours by completing this form and

returning it to the College Safety Officer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Report completed by: Date:
Date of incident | Time | Area Exact location
Name of injured party: Occupation:
Address: Staff/Student/Other
Details:
Facility:

 

Describe the nature and extent of injuries suffered.

First aid treatment Y/N

 

 

 

Describe the circumstances of the incident.

Referred to Doctor? Y/N

Doctor’s name and address

 

 

 

What was person doing at the time of the incident?
Work/other activity, Describe

 

 

 

Taken to hospital? Y/N
By:

Hospital:

Admitted or discharged after
treatment? Specify.

 

Was protective clothing worn at the time of the incident?

 

Was any machinery or vehicle involved?

Witness to incident? Y/N
Name:

Phone:

Address:

 

Comments or additional information.

 

 

Received by:

 

Health and Safety Officer

36

Reported by:
Phone No:
Department:

Date:
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

7.3 Accident and Incident Report Form Limerick

  
 

ident

 

| All accidents resulting in personal injury, a dangerous occurrence, damage to property or a near miss which could have resulted in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

|
i eee _______ injury must be reported within 24 hours by completing thisdocument.
Report completed by [
} a i
L Date Time | Area
| Name of injured party | as = Occupation ea
— | toca y SSeS oo ase sare
| Describe the nature and extent of injuries suffered
|
'
| First Aid Treatment | ____ Visit to doctor : [~
pee ES Ze YIN |
| Administered by L Doctor's details =|
Describe the circumstances of the incident a - -
| i : : &
| What was the person doing at the time of the incident?
| Was protective clothing worn at the time of the incident? 7
| = cc a
| Was a vehicle / machinery involved?
i
| wanes |
Comments or additional information |
| _ 7 a
| Witness to incident a |
[Reportedby | Department
ES 22 ee Seo
pee ae = aes
|

 

37

 

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

7.4 Hazard & Risk Assessment Work Sheets

Hazard and risk assessment is used to document existing hazards in College
Faculties/Departments.

See Appendix 2 for a sample of a hazard and risk assessment.

Employees have a responsibility to read the Hazard & Risk Assessment Work
Sheets which apply to their area and task.

8.0 TRAINING
Section 10 of the Safety, Health & Welfare at Work Act, 2005 requires that training in relation to
employees’ safety, health & welfare at work is provided to employees:

e On recruitment

e On transfer to another department

e On change of tasks assigned

e On the introduction of new work equipment, new systems of work or changes in existing

equipment or systems
e On the introduction of new technology

Such training will be provided in a form, manner and, as appropriate, language that is likely to be
understood by the affected employees.

The HR Department will ensure that the following occurs:

Health and Safety included in the induction of new staff— policies explained.
Fire and Emergency procedures Training

Manual Handling Training

Fire Marshal Training

First Aid Training

Office Ergonomics Training

Other central training where risk assessment identifies specific campus needs.

Where specialist individual training is. required, staff are enrolled on external training courses.
Individual Faculties and Departments work in collaboration with the HR Department to identify local
training needs, develop appropriate training materials and identify competent training providers.

8.1 Health and Safety Training records

The HR Department is responsible for maintaining and updating employee training records where
participation in sponsored training occurred.

The HR Department is responsible for maintaining and updating the health and safety training records
of their staff.

Records of all safety training, showing the names of the employees who have received training, their
signature will be kept by the HR department and the Health and Safety Coordinators.

Heads of Faculty/Department will maintain safety training records for their staff.

8.2 Train the Trainer Programmes
The College run a number of Train the Trainer programmes (Manual Handling)

8.3 Manual Handling Training:

All employees will attend a course in manual handling carried out by a Griffith College Manual
Handling Instructor. Employees will attend a refresher course every three years.

Employees must try and avoid manual handling where possible and to use appropriate manual
handling aids provided.

38
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

9.0 REVIEW OF THE SAFETY STATEMENT
The Safety Coordinators and Safety Officer will review the Safety Statement annually or with changes
in legislation.
The annual review will include the following:
* A review of all incidents in the previous twelve months involving health and safety at work.
+ A review of the measures taken to avoid a re-occurrence of such incidents.
* A review of all records maintained by the College.
* A review of training provided.
¢ A review of the resources spent in implementing the safety management systems.
* Proposals for amendments to safety statement.
* Proposals for training during the coming year.
* A review of hazard and risk assessments within the working areas.
* Updating with regard to new legislation.

9.1 Review Checklist

39

Is the Safety Statement clear and concise

Can the Safety Statement be read and understood by those who may be at risk?
Are the responsibilities of named persons clearly outlined?

Are all the hazards and assessment of risks identified?

Are risk assessments carried out on a regular basis as the risks change?

Are the risk assessments acted on?

Are written safety procedures available?

Is Health and Safety training being carried out?

Do safety consultation and representation procedures exist?

Is there adequate co-operation between Management Board, Heads of Faculty/Department,
Line Manager and employees on health and safety issues in the work

 

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Appendix 1 Griffith College Safety Statement

Contents

App 1.1 List of Trained Fire Marshals

App 1.2 List of Key Contacts

App 1.3 Location of Accident/Incident report form/book

40
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

App 1.1 List of Trained Fire Marshals

 

Griffith College Dublin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 
  

 

  

 

 

     

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Second
eae First response buildings response
Name Faculty/Dept Building Floor an 8 Gedliines
Ee [Be ba x Lx] covere, *
Alan Wright Campus Services Facilities office All All All
Charlie Monks Accounts D Block 0 D Block All
Claire Aston Student Union Meagher 1 Meagher & M Block All
Cliona Wrynn DIFC D Block 1 D Block A
Corey Lynch Wolfe Tone St Wolfe Tone St 0 All- WTS All- WTS
Declan Condon Arthurs Café AF Building zl AF Block & Design Bunker A
Declan Healy Maintenance All All All A
Deirdre Counihan Reception A Block 0 A Block & B Block All
Deirdre Doherty Design C Block 0 C Block & E Block All
Dimphne Ni Bhraonain Library A Block 2 A Block & B Block All
Gabriela Paleta GHR GHR GHR All
Geraldine McGing Spring Board C Block (C013) | 0 | C Block & E Block A
|Gerry Sheehan Maintenance [All All All A
Jacqui Broderick Professional Accountancy _|D Block 0 D Block A
Johnny Savage Photograph CAV. Calvar A
Joseph Byrne Wellington 0 Wellington, Richmond and J.S A
Kate Mason AF Building 1 AF Block & Design Bunker A
Kaylee Hayhoe AF Building -l AF Block & Design Bunker Al
Liam Atkins Securit Security/GHR All All All
Mairead Lawless Wolfe Tone St Wolfe Tone St | 0 All- WTS All- WTS
Marcus Gatte Law D Block 2 D Block All
Marius Bacau GHR GHR GHR A
Martin Foy Security Security/GHR All All A
Mary Whitney GBS [A Block (A109) 1 A Block & B Block A
Michael Walsh Securit Security/GHR All All A
Orla Browne GHR GHR GHR A
Paul Finegan IT Wellington 0 Wellington, Richmond and J.S A
Qiu Pan Housekeeping Facilities office 0 | All A
Rebecca Daly Design C Block 0 C Block & E Block A
Redmond Quigley Wolfe Tone St Wolfe Tone St 0 All- WTS All- WTS
Robert McKenna 2 A Block & B Block All
Shane Lynch All A
Sinead Murphy Photography A Block & B Block A
Susan Gogan Photography Calvary A
Sylvia Kucinska DIFC |D Block D Block A
Thomas Kelleher Security [Security/GHR | All A
Will Phelan Maintenance [Facilities office | All_| All A
Xinxin Zhao GHR (as | 2 | GHR Al
Yifan Yang International AF Building | i | AF Block & Design Bunker Al

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Griffith College Wolfe Tone Street Dublin

 

        

  

 

      

Name Contact
Redmond Quigley 01-4150450
Corey Lynch | 01-4150450

 

41

 
 

Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

 

| Griffith College Cork

 

 

 
 
        
     
  
  
 

 

 

 

| Name Contact

[David O’Shea 0860742907
[Noel Daly 0851066407
[Sinead O'Dea 0863825101
Terry Ward 0872486497

0876313196

Griffith College Limerick
Name Contact
Ext 213 — 061 310031 / 310044

 

 

   

 

   

Anthony Brosnan

App 1.2 List of Key Contacts

 

Griffith College Dublin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Safety Role Department/Role Name Ext & Mobile numbers

Director Management Board Ronan Fenelon _|086 8117349
Director Management Board _|Director Management Board Reg Callanan 01-4150 - 446
Safety Officer Campus Services/Facilities Manager Alan Wright 087 7478912
Safety Coordinator Security Supervisor Thomas Kelleher _|087 1918235
Safety Coordinator Security Supervisor Liam Atkins 087 9284856
Head of Faculty/Line manager Rabia Mirza Ol- 4150 - 498

: pie O1 - 4150 - 495, 086 8182370
Head of Faculty/Line manager |Security N/A or 087 2711948
Head of Faculty/Line manager |Accounts N/A Ol- 4150 - 479, 480, 481, 483
Head of Faculty/Line manager_|Marketing N/A Ol- 4150-411

. 7 Contact Housekeeping via
Head of Faculty/Line manager |Housekeeping N/A Reception 01- 4150 - 401
Head of Faculty/Line manager |Examinations Office N/A Ol- 4150 - 486, 485
Head of Faculty/Line manager N/A Ol- 4150 - 266, 267, 499, 240
Head of Faculty/Line manager |International Office N/A _ 150 ut20, BR fA, (22,
Head of Faculty/Line manager |Librar N/A 01 - 4150 - 490, 491, 492
Head of Faculty/Line manager [Print room N/A O1- 4150 - 496
Head of Faculty/Line manager [Reception N/A O1- 4150 - 401, 402, 403, 404
Head of Faculty/Line manager [Restaurant Ol- 4538 - 503
Head of Faculty/Line manager [Students Union N/A Ol- 4150 - 418
Head of Faculty/Line manager _|Maintenance N/A Ol- 4163 - 332, 087 9197462
Head of Faculty/Line manager [Conference Centre AF N/A O1- 4163 - 357
Head of Faculty/Line manager [Wolfe Tone Street Mairead Lawless _|01- 4150-411

 

 

Griffith College Wolfe Tone Street Dublin

Name Phone Numbers

Mairead Lawless Manager of Griffith College Wolfe Tone St 01-4150411

 

Griffith College Cork

| Role | Mobile Numbers

 

Head of Griffith College Cork 0876813351
Deputy Head of Griffith College Cork 0851066407
Maintenance 0868259222

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

       

 

Griffith College Limerick
Department Extension & Mobile numbers

 

   

enior Administrator

ity Department a
gineering & IT Department | 206
chool of Languages
taff Room |

rofessional Accountance

Business & Finance

Ext 201 — 061 310031 / 310043 / 087
2279395
Ext 201 — 061 310031 / 310043 / 087
2279395

  
   

PIZIY IBS| xcyyY |x iz
B/2-12 /8./8 |
2 |5-[3 a |e
8 12.8 o/s.
S/S |= 1S
Sls Q|5
eis. p
g S
=
n

200
201
202
203
204
ineeri 206
210
213
215

 
     

 

Safety Coordinator - Kevin
O'Sullivan

Safety Officer - Kevin
O'Sullivan

  

 

 

App 1.3 Location of Accident/Incident report form/book

  
 
      
     

  
   

APP 1.3 - Location of Accident/Incident Report book
Griffith College Campus
Main reception
Main reception

Cork
Limerick
Wolfe Tone Street Dublin

   

 

43
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

Appendix 2 Griffith College Safety Statement

Contents
App 2.1 Sample Risk Assessment and Method Statement

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Site Griffith College Area All
Activity: Fabrics — Painting and Decorating Reference T.B.C
Additional Point of
Requirements eae Work Risk PSDP/PSCS AP/CP
Assessment
Persons at Griffith Personnel Non-Griffith Personnel
Bek Employees Pregnant Young Other Public Visitors
Xx x x
Worker
Hazards Identified: L +S --R Controls needed S128) ER:
Use of chemicals 3/2] 6 e Only use chemicals that have| 1 | 2 | 2
been MSDS available
e Decant into smaller containers if
necessary
e Use in well ventilated areas
e Use appropriate PPE
Falling material ] 3 | 3 9 e Secure and cordon off area 1|3 3
e If not possible, complete out of
hours
Falls from height B:| 3 jag. e Correct access equipment | 2 | 3 | 6
selected for task.
e Operator trained in use of og
equipment
e Equipment secured before use
Slips, trips and falls sae 9 e Maintain good housekeeping 1/3
Use of power tools and hand tools 2|3 }-6 e Ensure right tools for job 1/33
e Ensure tools are inspected prior
to use
Protective Equipment
Type Overalls Gloves ne eae Hearing Hi Vis Head Eye Feet
Symbol fo)
© |G y
Required x X x
Protective Systems :
‘ype Leck Out Permit ne Asbestos Baciers Out of Handover oe Pre Task
to Work z Survey Certs Checks
Equip task
Symbol < =
hg
Required xX

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

 

Assessors Statement:

Having reviewed the hazards and risks, the level of risk and the key risks, | believe that if the control measures
identified are applied Griffith will, so far as is reasonably practicable, have met the requirements of this
assessment

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Role

Signature

Date Review
Risk matrix

Risk Evaluation Likelihood of Occurrence
| 2 2! Improbable 1/1,000,000

Low 1/10,000

meciom | een

1/100

Near Certainty 1/10

Fatality

 

Potential Severity

apeseatie [| = [= [>|

 

45

 
Rev-3 (Mar 2019)

 

Method statement

 

Task

 

 

 

Fabrics — Painting and Decorating | Reference Steps | 1to5

 

 

 

Additional Workplace / Task Precautions

 

Information, instruction and training

 

Competency

Appropriate non-slip shoes, glasses and gloves if
requested

 

Site/Job Specific Emergency Arrangements

[Insert Site Arrangements]

 

Specialist plant & equipment required

None

 

First aid arrangements

 

Site Adaptations Implemented

[Insert site specific deviations from RA
Controls/methods]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Step
NOTE _|
Ensure area is clear of all non-essential personnel. When preparation work is being
1 carried out, noise and dust are to be kept to a minimum. Lighting to be assessed for
the job in hand. If it is not adequate then additional lighting brought in if deemed
necessary. Work area to be kept clean and tidy at all times
Personal protective equipment is to be worn to comply with Statutory Regulations
2 and site rules. Dust masks to be worn when sanding down wood, cutting tiles etc.
Goggles to be worn when using power tools that generate flying debris. Hearing
defenders to be worn when using power tools that have noise levels over 85 dB(A).
3 Paint should be decanted into smaller pots for ease of use
All paint and thinners to be assessed before use. When stripping old paintwork be
4 aware that it might contain lead. Ensure that there is adequate ventilation at all
times.
Ladders / steps to be secured or footed. All ladders / steps to be inspected prior to
5 each use. Keep other persons out of working area when working above ground

 

level. Materials to be stacked safely. Keep working area free of obstructions. No
items to be thrown from height

 

46