Privacy Policy
Privacy Statement of Erin College
We at Erin College respect your right to privacy and comply with our obligations under
the EU General Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679) (“GDPR”). The purpose of
this Website Privacy Statement is to outline how we deal with any personal data you
provide to us while visiting this website – www.erincollege.com. Any external links to
other websites are clearly identifiable as such, and we are not responsible for the
content or the privacy policies of these other websites. Naturally, if you are not happy
with our Website’s Privacy Statement you should not use it.
1. Types of information collected
We retain two types of information:
“Personal Data”
This is data that identifies you or can be used to identify or contact you and may include
your name, address, e-mail address, nationality, user IP addresses in circumstances
where they have not been deleted, clipped or anonymised and telephone number. We
collect this data with the student’s consent for processing. This can be as a result of
direct contact, e-mail or information provided through online forms.
“Non-Personal Data”
Like most websites, we gather statistical and other analytical information collected on
an aggregate basis from all visitors to our website. This Non-Personal Data comprises
information that cannot be used to identify or contact you, such as demographic
information regarding, for example, user IP addresses where they have been clipped or
anonymised, browser types and other anonymous statistical data involving the use of
our website.
2. Purposes for which we hold your Information Non-Personal Data:
We use the Non-Personal Data gathered from visitors to our website in an aggregate form
to get a better understanding of where our visitors come from and to help us better design
and organise our website.
Personal Data:
We
only
use
your
personal
information
for
specific
purposes related to the
administrative, academic and business management of the school, including:
●
school enrolment
●
to process financial transactions
●
to assist with visa applications
●
to order medical or learner protection insurance
●
for immigration purposes
●
to book accommodation
●
to contact you if we are to respond to any communications you might send to us;
●
to contact the selected Erin College staff that you have requested to be
contacted on your
behalf
●
to process any orders from you i.e. training bookings
●
to be used in statistical reporting regarding our web activities and
to provide you with newsletters for which you subscribe (please see section 6 for further
details)
3. Disclosure of information to third parties
We may provide Non-Personal Data to third parties, where such information is combined
with similar information of other users of our website. For example, we might inform third
parties regarding the number of unique users who visit our website, the demographic
breakdown of the community users of our website, or the activities that visitors to our
website engage in while on our website.
For the purposes of processing payments in respect of your training bookings, we will
share your personal information with financial third parties, which, depending on your
country of residency, maybe be outside of the EEA. We will not disclose your Personal
Data to any other third parties unless you have consented to this disclosure. We will
disclose your Personal Data if we believe in good faith that we are required to disclose it
in order to comply with any applicable law, a summons, a search warrant, a court or
regulatory order, or other statutory requirements. In addition to the above, we may also
share your information with third parties to allow a merger, acquisition or sale of all or a
portion of our assets.
4. Security
We are committed to ensuring that your personal information is secure with us. All
information submitted directly or via the website is fully protected both online and
offline.
Only staff members who need the information to carry out a specific job will be
allowed access to your personal information. All computers and manual filing systems
in which Erin College store information are kept in a secure environment.
5. CCTV on the Building
Erin College has closed circuit television cameras (“CCTV”) located throughout the
building covering the stairways, reception and the main entrance of the buildings.
Erin’s CCTV system is implemented in a proportionate manner as necessary to protect
Erin’s property against theft or pilferage and for the safety and security of staff, students
and visitors to the Erin’s building (to protect their vital interests).
Whilst CCTV footage is monitored from the Director of Operations office, access to
recorded footage is strictly limited to authorised personnel. Footage is retained for 28
days and has been removed from the system automatically except where incidents or
accidents have been identified, in which case such footage is retained specifically in the
context of an investigation of that issue.
CCTV footage may be used in the context of disciplinary proceedings involving Erin's
staff or students (to protect the vital interests of Erin, staff, students and affected
individuals). CCTV footage is not disclosed to third parties except where disclosure is
required by law (such as for the purpose of preventing, detecting or investigating
alleged offences) and in such instances, disclosure is based on a valid request. Signage
indicating that CCTV is in use is displayed prominently throughout the Erin buildings.
For information on CCTV operations at Erin, please contact the Director of Operations.
6. How long do we keep your information?
Due to legal and operational obligations/regulations, we may keep your personal
information for an indefinite period unless you request that it be removed from our
system.
7. Your Rights
Under GDPR, you have certain legal rights to control your personal information and
the manner in which we process it. This includes:
●
A right to access
●
A right to correct inaccurate information or update incomplete information
●
A right to restrict processing
●
A right to receive information in a portable form
●
A right to object to the processing of data for a purpose for which it was not
provided
●
A right to withdraw your consent at anytime
●
A right to lodge a complaint with the Data Protection Commissioner
You may inform us of any changes in your Personal Data in accordance with our
obligations under the EU General Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679) (“GDPR”).
We will update or delete your Personal Data accordingly. To find out what Personal Data
we hold on you, to request a copy of your personal data or to have your Personal Data
updated,
amended
or
removed
from
our
database,
please
contact
us
via
info@erincollege.com.
8. Cookies
This site uses cookies – small text files that are placed on your machine to help the site
provide a better user experience and allow us to maintain your connection to our
website. In general, cookies are used to retain user preferences, store information for
things like shopping carts, and provide anonymised tracking data to third-party
applications like Google Analytics. As a rule, cookies will make your browsing
experience better. However, you may prefer to disable cookies on this site and on
others. The most effective way to do this is to disable cookies in your browser. We
suggest consulting the Help section of your browser or taking a look at the About
Cookies website, which offers guidance for all modern browsers
This website may use cookies for detecting what kind of device you have in order to
present content in the best way, for a language switch and/or for other purposes. These
cookies do not collect or store any personally identifiable information. You can refuse the
use of cookies.
How to refuse the use of cookies
You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings in your browser.
However, if you do this, you may lose some features.
How to disable cookies in your browser
Here’s how to prevent new cookies from being installed and how to delete existing
cookies. The exact procedure depends on which browser you are using. You can find
additional information here: investis.com/disabling-cookies
Internet Explorer
To prevent new cookies from being installed and delete existing cookies:
https://windows.microsoft.com/en-GB/internet-explorer/delete-manage-cookies
Firefox
To prevent new cookies from being installed:
https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences
Google Chrome
To prevent new cookies from being installed and delete existing cookies:
https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en
Safari
To prevent new cookies from being installed and delete existing cookies:
https://help.apple.com/safari/mac/8.0/#/sfri11471
Google Analytics
This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc.
(‘Google’). Google Analytics uses cookies (text files placed on your computer) to help
website operators analyse how users use the site. The information generated by the
cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to
and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information
for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website
activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity
and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where
required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on
Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by
Google. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by
Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.
Security
Erin College treats all the data held with the utmost care and security. Any details you
give will remain completely confidential.
7. Enforcement of this privacy statement
If you have any questions regarding the above statement, please contact us at Erin
College or by post to:
Erin College
43 North Great George’s Street, Dublin, Ireland – D01 N6P2