Required Documents  - Short Stay ‘C’ Visa  
 
 
 
 
Please note in addition to the required documents for your visa application you 
may need to provide further additional documents depending on the purpose 
of your travel here, please return to the main FAQ page and access the link to 
Additional Documents on that page. 
 
 
 
Please provide the following documents with your Short Stay ‘C’ visa 
application.  
 
 
You must provide: 
 
 Application summary form (from AVATs) 
 Passports  or Travel Document 
 2 X passport photographs  
 Proof of fee payment/fee exemption 
 All previous passports  
 Biometrics (where required) 
 If you are resident in a country outside of the country which issued your passport or 
travel document you must submit: 
o  A full colour copy of your residence permission (If you have a residence card 
you must photocopy both sides), and 
o You must have 3 months permission to remain in that country after the date 
you plan to leave Ireland.  
 Documentation on previous visa refusals, Other immigration Issues (including 
deportation, overstaying) and Criminal Convictions  
 Travel/ Medical Insurance if required 
 Application Letter (Signed and dated)  
The application letter you submit must contain the following information 
o Your full contact details  
o Visa application number  
o All details of your family members in Ireland, in the UK, in any EU/EEA 
member State 
o The reason for your proposed trip to Ireland, and  
o A commitment from you that you will: 
 Obey the conditions of your visa in full 
 Not rely on public services (for example, public hospitals) or become a 
burden on the State 
 Leave Ireland before your immigration permission expires. 
 
 An Itinerary: 
o What you will do in Ireland 
o How long you will be here (proposed dates of travel)  
o How you will travel here. 
 
If your travel path involves other countries, you must show that you have the 
necessary visas in your passport for those countries. If you do not, you must explain 
why.  
 
 Proof of accommodation 
Printed reservation confirmations (emails or letters) which must show the dates you 
intend to stay in each place.  
 
If you are staying with your family or friends, you must  
 
 State who you are staying with  
 Provide evidence that the person lives at that address (for example a tenancy 
agreement, and recent utility bill). 
 
 
 Finances - Bank Statements.  You must provide 6 months bank statements. 
 
If someone else is funding your trip please provide: 
 
 
o Sponsor’s 6 months bank statements 
o Evidence of sponsor’s income (their 3 most recent payslips, their most 
tax document for example, end of year return, employment detail 
summary 
o A letter from the sponsor’s employer that confirms they are employed  
o Evidence of Sponsor’s family circumstances  
o Evidence of how you are known to them (for example: birth/marriage 
certificates and evidence of ongoing contact) 
o A letter of support with the application outlining the reason why they 
are funding your trip. (This must include all costs they will cover, in 
euro) 
o If your sponsor is a business, or an organisation, you must provide 
evidence of their finances, how they know you, and why they are 
funding your trip.  
 
 Applicants under 18 years of age 
 
 
o If you are making an application on behalf of someone who is under 
18 years of age then you will need to provide additional documents to 
us. Please refer to the following information. 
 
 
 
Please note if you find that you cannot submit a document requested, you should provide 
an explanation as to why you cannot provide it, and any other documents for consideration 
by the visa officer.  
 
Documents must be original.  
We do not accept photocopies (except where stated). 
 
Letters from companies, universities, schools, colleges, and so on, must be on official 
headed paper and show the organisation's: 
 
Full name 
 
Full postal address 
 
Telephone number (fixed/land line -  not mobile/cell phone) 
 
Website address 
 
Email address (Yahoo and Hotmail email addresses are not accepted) 
 
A contact person's name and title/position 
 
Written signature of an authorised representative (an electronic signature is not 
accepted). 
 
 
 
Documents must be translated & certified 
You must provide a full and certified translation into the English or Irish language of any 
documents not in English or Irish. Send us both the original documents and the certified 
translations, read here certified translations of documents  
 
 
 
Important: Do not include false or misleading information or documents in your 
application. If you do, your application may be refused. In some circumstances, you 
may not be allowed to appeal the visa decision and may be blocked from getting an 
Irish visa for 5 years.