Complaints Policy
We hope that you will be happy here at Erin School of English but if you aren’t, we have a process for
handling complaints. You can talk to your teacher, our student support officer, reception, or a member of
management. Most problems can be resolved quickly but for more serious issues, you may wish to make
a formal complaint.
All formal complaints must be made in writing via email to info@erincollege.com (Dublin) or
info.cork@erincollege.com (Cork). The complaint must include as much information as possible, so that
we can deal with the complaint as efficiently as possible. Please include details such as:
●
The name of the individual, group or service about which you wish to complain
●
All relevant details of your complaint
●
The dates and times of the events
●
Witnesses
●
Account of the circumstances of the complaint, including any previous actions taken to remedy
it.
●
Any other supporting evidence you wish to submit.
●
Any suggestions you have for resolving the issue
Complaints should normally be made within 5 days of the event in question so that they can be dealt
with as quickly as possible.
Reception will respond to complaints within 48 hours of receipt. Depending on the nature of the
complaint, an investigation may be opened. This investigation may include but not limited to,
interviewing the complainant, any witnesses named and seeking any other relevant information
necessary to determine an appropriate resolution.
Management will consult with any relevant departments to resolve the issue and a response will be sent
to the student within 5 working days. If you are not satisfied with the resolution, you can appeal the
decision via email, addressed to the Director of Operations.
The school is here to help and protect both students and staff and we will do our utmost to ensure that
your time here is safe and happy. False and/or maliciously motivated complaints will result in disciplinary
action up to and including expulsion.
Complaints Procedure
This document outlines the process followed in the event of the school receiving a complaint.
1)
Complaints are made to reception or sent via email to info@erincollege.com for Dublin students
or info.cork@erincollege.com for Cork students
2)
All complaints are forwarded to the relevant department.
3)
A member of management or student support will meet the student to discuss the issue, if it is
deemed necessary.
●
If the issue concerns the class, the DoS/ADoS observes the class and gives feedback.
●
If the issue is about a teacher, the DoS/ADoS advises the teacher (if deemed necessary) and
records the details of the complaint, the DoS/ADoS observes the class and gives feedback about
how the issue could be resolved.
●
If the complaint is made in relation to the behaviour of another student, a member of
management or student support will meet with both students concerned and attempt to
mediate and resolve the difficulties.
●
If the issue concerns the DoS/ADoS, the Head of Academics will deal with the matter.
4)
Management will consult with any relevant departments to resolve the issue and a decision as to
how to solve the problem will be made within 5 working days.
5)
If this fails to resolve the issue the Director of Operations meets with the parties concerned.
Complaint Form
Name of person dealing with the complaint:
Date:
Time:
Name of Complainant and Student Number:
Person or service you wish to complain about:
Witnesses (if any):
Details of Complaint:
Is there any background information you would like to add?
Details of previous action taken to resolve the issue, if any.
How would you like the issue to be resolved?
Complaint Resolution Form (for office use only)
Name of person dealing with the complaint:
Date:
Actions taken: