DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
IMMIGRATION SERVICE DELIVERY (ISD) 
 
Interim List of Eligible Programmes for Student Immigration Permission 
 
Arrangements Applying to English Language Programmes  
(Updated 21 March 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Section 1: Introduction 
 
 
A series of reforms to the student immigration system for international education were implemented in 2015 
in line with the policy statement Reform of the International Education Sector and Student Immigration 
System1. The Interim List of Eligible Programmes (ILEP) was introduced as a more restrictive list of education 
programmes eligible for student immigration purposes, used as a reference point for Immigration Service 
Delivery (ISD) of the Department of Justice, in considering visa and residency applications from non-EEA 
applicants2 wishing to study on a full-time basis in Ireland.  
 
The ILEP is available here and includes details of programmes meeting specified criteria. The inclusion of 
programmes in the ILEP enables providers to recruit non-EEA students to study full-time in Ireland.  The types 
of programmes included in the ILEP are set out in Section 2. New overseas accredited/validated programmes or 
further education or vocational education and training programmes are not included. The ILEP will remain 
closed to new providers.  
 
The ILEP was developed as an interim measure, pending the introduction by Quality and Qualifications Ireland 
(QQI) of the International Education Mark (IEM), which was launched in 2024. QQI will award the IEM (TrustEd 
Ireland quality mark) to higher education and English language providers who demonstrate that they meet 
national standards to ensure a quality experience for international learners. Once the TrustEd Ireland scheme 
is fully operational, the ILEP will cease to operate.   Once the ILEP is discontinued, only education providers 
granted authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark will be eligible to recruit students from outside the EEA 
to English language programmes, foundation programmes and higher education programmes leading to 
awards within the National Framework of Qualifications.  
 
The ILEP is administered by the Department of Justice. The Department of Further and Higher Education, 
Research, Innovation and Science (DFHERIS) has an advisory role in identifying appropriate criteria for the 
inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. Existing providers with programmes listed in the ILEP must remain in 
compliance with the criteria and requirements contained in this document, and all immigration requirements, 
to retain their ILEP listing. Where a provider can demonstrate it is acting in line with QQI’s Code of Practice and 
has submitted an application for the TrustEd education mark, this may be taken into consideration where 
practices are found to deviate from ILEP requirements.    
 
Study Visas and Stamp 2 immigration permissions will only be granted in respect of participation in a course 
listed in the ILEP or an eligible course offered by a provider with authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland 
education mark. All providers seeking to recruit students from non-EEA countries must cooperate with ISD in 
the Department of Justice and ensure compliance with immigration law, whether recruitment is on the basis of 
an ILEP programme listing or authorisation to use the IEM. Providers must ensure all students, including 
prospective students, are aware of their immigration obligations. Students will not be granted visas or 
immigration permission in respect of a part-time or online course. Where changes to a programme result in 
the programme no longer meeting programme and/or delivery requirements, non-EEA students should not be 
recruited and the provider must contact ISD to ensure the programme is removed from the list.  
 
Where a provider has programmes listed in the ILEP and remains in compliance with ILEP criteria, it may 
continue to recruit non-EEA nationals until the ILEP ceases operation. In April 2025 there will be one final 
opportunity for listed providers to apply for the inclusion of additional programmes in the ILEP. The final ILEP 
update will be published in June 2025, after which point there will be no further additions to the list. The ILEP 
will then be gradually phased out in line with the implementation of the TrustEd Ireland scheme. To remain 
eligible to recruit non-EEA nationals, providers must gain authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark.  
                                                          
1 This built on a previous government decision announced by the Ministers for Education and Justice: Regulatory Reform of the 
International Education Sector  
2 The members of the European Economic Area: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, 
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. These arrangements/regulations apply to programmes for students who 
are citizens from countries other than those listed above or Switzerland. 
3 
 
Providers are referred to QQI’s information page for more information about IEM requirements, QQI’s TrustEd 
Ireland quality mark and the application process. Any questions should be addressed to the International 
Education Division of QQI at international.education@qqi.ie  
 
A programme listing in the ILEP will only be valid for the duration of the ILEP.  After this time, only providers 
with authorisation from QQI to use the TrustEd Ireland mark will be permitted to recruit non-EEA nationals 
requiring immigration permission to reside here for the purpose of study. Information pertaining to dissolution 
of the ILEP and transitional arrangements will be communicated on the Irish Immigration website.  
 
Providers with programmes listed in the ILEP, must apply for, and be authorised to use, the TrustEd Ireland 
mark to continue to recruit non-EU/EEA international students who require study permission or student visas.  
Providers who have achieved the authorisation to use the Trusted Ireland mark will be eligible to recruit non-
EEA students to full-time programmes meeting immigration requirements.  
 
Information for English language students requiring immigration permission: 
A student will be eligible to apply for a Study Visa (if required) and/or Stamp 2 immigration permission when 
participating in a programme listed in the ILEP or an eligible programme offered by a provider with 
authorisation to use the IEM. English language programmes must be full-time and at least 25 weeks in 
duration. Immigration permission up to 8 months may be granted, at the discretion of the Immigration Official. 
Students must progress in their studies and demonstrate at least 85% attendance. Students should refer 
directly to the Irish Immigration website before coming to study in Ireland.  
 
 
 
Section 2: Programme Requirements  
 
Please note: these requirements are without prejudice to any additional requirements or measures that may 
be imposed by Irish immigration authorities or Irish Government Departments. 
 
Programmes included in the ILEP are divided into the following categories:  
(a) Higher education programmes leading to major Awards; 
(b) Higher education programmes leading to non-major awards; 
(c) Professional awards; 
(d) English language programmes; and 
(e) Foundation programmes. 
 
The criteria for categories (a), (b) and (c) and (e) are published on the ISD website. The criteria and 
requirements for English language programmes are set out in this document.   
 
Definition and Interpretation 
 
English language programmes which are eligible for inclusion in the ILEP must have the following 
characteristics: 
a) Be a minimum of 25 weeks in duration and offered within a seven month period3 with a minimum of 15 
classroom tuition hours per week, excluding breaks, delivered Monday to Friday between the hours of 
9am and 5pm;  
b) Have a defined learning pathway (i.e. a course programme), with specified learning outcomes stating the 
learning goals to be achieved at the end of the programme; 
c) Have an assessment framework aligned to the programme and its learning outcomes;  
d) Be subject to internal quality assurance; and  
e) Be offered exclusively to students who are speakers of other languages, for whom English is not their 
first language, and conclude in one of the English language proficiency exams (with a specified score / 
grade where the exam is a system) listed in Table 1 (completed at an approved test centre);  or 
                                                          
3 Immigration permission of up to eight months may be granted to students, to accommodate four weeks’ holidays and 
allow time to sit the end-of-programme exam.  
4 
 
f) Lead to a recognised English Language Teaching (ELT) award made by a recognised national or international 
awarding body. 
 
Each programme is considered on its own merits. The Department of Justice may liaise with regulatory 
authorities, awarding bodies and external quality assurance agencies as appropriate to confirm that individual 
programmes meet the specified programme criteria. Where deemed appropriate, the Department of Justice, 
on behalf of the Minister, will seek advice from Quality and Qualifications Ireland (QQI) where education-
related queries arise. 
 
The following criteria apply for English language programmes listed in the ILEP: 
 
 
The provider must have the capacity, resources and expertise (including qualifications and experience of 
staff) to deliver its programmes. 
 
The immigration and academic track record and pass rates on the programme must be to the satisfaction 
of the Department of Justice.  
 
The examining body must remain in good standing with the regulatory authorities, including immigration 
authorities, in its home jurisdiction. In this regard, the Department of Justice may liaise with such 
authorities to confirm the awarding body’s current standing. 
 
All relevant records setting out the relationship between the examining body and the Irish provider, 
together with the terms and conditions applicable to the provision of programmes, must be provided on 
request to the Department of Justice. 
 
Programmes listed in the ILEP must demonstrate progression of at least one full CEFRL level during the 
course of the 25-week programme. 
 
Providers must ensure programmes are listed in the published ILEP in advance of marketing to, or 
recruiting, non-EEA students. 
 
Information provided to the immigration authorities will be shared as necessary with DFHERIS and 
members of the ILEP Committees.   
 
 
 
 
Please note: 
English language programmes with a specific professional or occupational domain focus, e.g. IT or tourism, will 
typically contain a module or strand of the overall English programme focusing on a specific lexis or subject-
area. Such programmes must culminate in a minimum B1 or equivalent grade, as formally calibrated by the 
exam provider should the programme not culminate in an award. 
 
English for Business programmes will have learning outcomes within the relevant language systems and 
language skills descriptions. Programmes will culminate in a relevant exam identified as assessing English for 
business purposes. Such programmes must culminate in a minimum B1 or equivalent grade, as formally 
calibrated by the exam provider should the programme not culminate in an award. 
 
 
5 
 
Table 1: English language proficiency exams: end-of-course exams with minimum scores/grades 
 
Examining Body4 
Exam Title 
Minimum Exit 
Score5 
Interactive English Language 
Tests Ltd (IELT) 
 
Test of Interactive English (TIE) 
A2 
English Test for Academic & Professional Purposes 
(ETAPP) 
B1 
British Council/ IDP IELTS / 
Cambridge University Press & 
Assessment (CUPA) 
 
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) 
(Academic) 
4.0/ B1 
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) 
(General Training) 
4.0/ B1 
Cambridge University Press & 
Assessment (CUPA)  
Key Test  (also known as Cambridge English: Key - KET) 
Pass C/A2 
B1 Preliminary (also known as Cambridge English: 
Preliminary – PET) 
 Pass C/B1 
B2 First (also known as Cambridge English: First - FCE) 
Pass C/B2 
C1 Advanced (also known as Cambridge English: 
Advanced – CAE) 
Pass C/C1 
C2 Proficiency (also known as Cambridge English: 
Proficiency – CPE) 
Pass C/C1+ -C2 
Occupational English Test (OET) 
Pass C/B2 
Pearson  
Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic) 
43/ B1 
Trinity College London  
Integrated Skills Exam (ISE) 
A2  
Integrated Skills in English (ISE) Foundation (F) 
ISE F Pass /A2 
Integrated Skills Exam (ISE) I 
ISE I Pass /B1 
Integrated Skills Exam (ISE) II 
ISE II Pass /B2 
Integrated Skills Exam (ISE) III 
ISE III Pass /C1 
Integrated Skills Exam (ISE)  IV  
ISE IV Pass/C2 
ETS  
TOEFL iBT 
42 / B1 
72/ B2 
Oxford University Press  
Oxford Test of English A2-B2 
A2-B2 
Oxford Test of English Advanced B2-C1 
B2 
Language Cert  
LanguageCert International  ESOL (four skills tests only) 
A2 Access  
B1 Achiever 
B2 Communicator 
C1 Expert 
C2 Mastery 
 
LanguageCert Academic 
A2 
B1 
B2 
C1 
C2 
B1 
 
 
 
                                                          
4 All exams must be completed in-person at an approved test centre/location authorised by the Examining Body. 
5 A programme must prepare a student to exit with language competence of at least the minimum exit score or above. 
6 
 
 
Duration and attendance requirements 
 
Duration and attendance requirements for English Language Programmes listed in the ILEP:  
1. 
Programme attendance requirements include the following: 
a) 
Non-EEA students must be attending the programme on a full-time, daytime basis, which is 
defined as students attending between the hours of 9am and 5pm on a minimum of four days 
between Monday and Friday each week.  
b) 
Programmes must be delivered fully through in-person classes to best meet the pedagogical 
needs of students and optimum student experience6.  
c) 
Formal timetabled hours for student contact must amount to at least 15 hours (15 x 60 minutes) 
per week, excluding breaks.  
d) 
The programme must operate for a minimum of 25 weeks over a 7-month period; and the tuition 
element must constitute at least 375 hours during that period.  
2. The hours of tuition must be appropriate in terms of the aims, objectives and learning outcomes set for 
the programme to enable the student to successfully achieve the minimum exit score / grade for the 
end-of-programme exam. Modifying tuition hours for the purposes of meeting the minimum duration 
criteria for the ILEP is not acceptable.  
3. A provider must display the detailed timetables (in calendar format) for all its programmes on its 
website in a manner freely accessible to the public. 
4. On enrolment, the provider must give each student a written timetable clearly identifying the daily and 
weekly tuition times with dates. The programme schedule, including holiday periods, must be presented 
by the student to the Immigration Officer for inspection during the student’s registration.  
a) 
Holiday periods must be outlined in advance.  
b) 
Calculation of a student’s programme end date must take into account bank holidays and holiday 
closures to ensure a minimum of 375 tuition hours.   
c) 
The programme timetable must be set out in such a way that holiday periods cannot at any point 
exceed 1/3 of the total weeks elapsed (front loading of holidays will not be permitted).  
d) 
The tuition weeks should not exceed 7 months to allow time to sit the end-of-programme exam. 
e) 
It is the responsibility of providers to provide students with tuition as stated in this timetable. Any 
changes to the timetable must be with the agreement of the student.  
5. Attendance by students is defined as attending the full designated tuition hours - i.e. arriving more than 
15 minutes late, or leaving before the class has concluded, means the student is marked absent for the 
class / class segments. Providing this leeway should not be adopted by providers as a mechanism for 
allowing students to regularly arrive late without being marked absent. The design and operation of the 
system for recording attendance must be in line with ILEP requirements, whether manual, electronic or 
a mix. Attendance must be recorded in each class and class teachers must also record the overall 
number of students in attendance.  Manual attendance sheets must be retained by the provider for a 
minimum of 12 months for inspection and will be checked against any computer records. ISD also 
reserves the rights to request data on monitoring of students’ attendance.  
 
Publishing information for students 
Providers should not market programmes to non-EEA nationals or recruit them to programmes in advance of 
achieving a programme listing in the published ILEP. Programmes must be clearly described in published 
material and in communications with potential students. Information should accurately describe the 
programme content and the aims/outcomes on completion. Students should be informed as to the level of 
programme, progression paths and immigration requirements.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                          
6 Except where a move to blended or wholly online delivery is in response to Government advice or public health restrictions. 
7 
 
   Section 3: Providers listed in the ILEP 
 
The ILEP is closed to new providers. An English Language programme, as defined in Section 2, is eligible for 
inclusion in the ILEP when it meets the programme criteria set out in Section 2 and is offered by a provider with 
programmes currently listed in the ILEP.  
 
Providers* with programmes listed in the ILEP must comply with all conditions and requirements set out in 
Sections 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this document in order to retain a listing in the ILEP.   
 
*Recognised Irish awarding bodies7 must comply with the Programme Requirements in Section 2 and the ‘Other 
Conditions’ set out in Section 5 of this document. 
 
Provider Ownership 
Where there are changes to the arrangements previously advised to ISD, a revised statement of ownership of 
the legal entity, signed on affidavit8 by an owner of the company/ legal entity, must be submitted. This 
statement must: 
i. 
list all persons who are owners9, beneficial owners*, directors, shareholders and/or investors in the 
provider, or holding company of which the provider is a subsidiary, including shadow directors or 
persons otherwise having a beneficial ownership of the provider company / legal entity. 
ii. 
set out shareholding arrangements and confirm that all shares held by persons listed as a shareholder, 
or director of a provider are in the name of the persons listed and are entirely at their disposal. Where 
shares are held in trust this must be so stated, detailing for whom they are held in trust. 
iii. 
provide a declaration as to whether any individuals who hold an interest in the provider also act as a 
recruitment agent,10 and 
iv. 
declare all other shareholdings, directorships or interest(s) held by the listed shareholders and/or 
directors in other education and training providers in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction.  
 
*For the purposes of this criterion a “beneficial owner” is an individual who benefits from at least 25 per 
cent of the business (i.e. the provider), where this has been established i.e.: 
a. 
if the individuals who benefit from the business have been determined, any individual who benefits 
from at least 25 per cent of the business; 
b. 
if the individuals who benefit from the business have yet to be determined, the class of such 
individuals in whose main interest the business is set up or operates,  
c. 
any individual who exercises control over at least 25 per cent of the business. 
NB: Any individual who is the beneficial owner of a body corporate that benefits from or exercises control 
over the business is taken to benefit from or exercise control over the business. 
 
Failing to make a full and accurate disclosure, or making a false or misleading disclosure, may result in the 
provider and its programmes being removed from the ILEP. Providers who make false, misleading or 
incomplete declarations will be prohibited from having programmes included in the ILEP and /or its 
successor. Providers are obliged to ensure that the information submitted to ISD remains up-to-date and are 
therefore required to communicate any changes of ownership to ISD within 5 working days of such changes 
taking place. Failure to do so will result in programmes being removed from the ILEP unless a successful 
appeal is lodged. 
 
 
                                                          
7     Designated awarding bodies, institutes of technology, technological universities and other bodies granted statutory power to  make 
awards under Irish law. 
8     The Affidavit must be completed in the presence of a person authorised by law to administer oaths, e.g. a Solicitor or Commissioner 
for Oaths.  
9  For the purpose of these criteria, owners are defined here as anyone who has a financial investment or interest in the legal entity. 
An owner may be active or not active in the business, sole, part or co-owner, beneficial owner, shareholder, any person for whom 
shares are held in trust by another person etc. 
10     Information on individuals who hold an interest in a provider and also act as a recruitment agent must be set out in the statement of 
ownership. 
8 
 
Section 4: Requirements of Providers11 
 
1. All owners, shareholders, directors and managers of the provider must have a sound track record in 
educational provision and with immigration compliance nationally and in any other jurisdiction. Managers 
include individuals employed as “Director of Studies”. 
2. All owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must not have been involved in the last five years in 
the ownership of an education and training provider, in this or any other jurisdiction, which closed leaving 
students disadvantaged, e.g. out of fees or without an arrangement to complete their studies. 
3.  The provider must not have owners or majority shareholders acting as a recruitment agent. Information on 
individuals who hold an interest in a provider and also act as a recruitment agent must be set out in the 
statement of ownership12.  
4. Owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must not have been convicted of an indictable offence in 
connection with a business or a company either in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction. 
5. Owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must never have been convicted of an offence involving 
fraud or dishonesty in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction.  
6. The provider must never have been the subject of an order under Section 160 of the Companies Act 1990, 
as amended13. 
7. The provider must comply with all immigration requirements. The immigration authorities must be fully 
satisfied in relation to the continued capacity of the provider to address all aspects of the provision of 
English language education to non-EEA students.  In respect of student data to be provided to ISD for 
immigration purposes, the relevant data protection permissions should be greed with students accordingly 
and in line with GDPR requirements14. ISD and the Department of Justice do not require the provision of 
biometric data. 
8. The owners, shareholders, directors and managers must meet all other national legal requirements, e.g. 
employment regulations. The owners, shareholders, directors and managers must also satisfy all 
immigration requirements. 
9. 
The provider must be tax compliant and remain in good financial standing.  
10. The provider must notify any changes to capacity and location to ISD. In respect of each location of 
provision, the Capacity Statement must identify how programmes and students are accommodated and 
the resources available, including details of: 
a. the maximum number of enrolled students the provider can accommodate  
b. the number of classrooms (and capacity of each) at each centre 
c. the facilities available to students at each centre, adequate for the maximum student numbers, 
including: 
 
Common room  
 
library facilities  
 
resource centre  
 
student supports 
d. the facilities available to academic staff at each centre, including spaces for the preparation of 
lessons.  
e. the duration of the current lease arrangements for the classrooms as set out above. 
Changes to leasing arrangements, or the location of the provider or provision must be communicated to 
ISD within 5 working days of such changes taking place. Failure to do so will result in programmes being 
removed from the ILEP, unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
11. The provider must have appropriate administrative staffing arrangements: 
i. 
administrative positions in any management role with responsibility for non-EEA students, 
attendance records and/or the attendance system must not be filled by non-EEA students.  
ii. 
all academic staff must have a minimum of a major award at level 7 on the National Framework of 
Qualifications (or equivalent) and a recognised ELT certificate (or equivalent). Changes to teaching 
                                                          
11  This section does not apply to bodies granted statutory power to make awards under Irish law. All other providers must maintain 
compliance, particularly where arrangements previously advised to ISD, including the Statement of Ownership are being revised. 
12    See section 3 for full requirements.  
13  Companies Act 1990 and amendments: http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1990/act/33/enacted/en/html   
14   Further information is available at www.dataprotection.ie 
9 
 
staff must be communicated to ISD in the required format15 within 5 working days of such changes 
taking place. Details of the qualifications held by all academic staff must be retained and provided at 
the request of ISD. Failure to do so may result in the removal of programmes from the ILEP. It 
should also be noted that where high instances of teacher turnover are present, the provider will be 
subject to greater scrutiny; 
iii. 
all academic management staff must have a minimum of five years’ recent and consecutive 
experience in the field of English language teaching of adults. 
The provider must have documented published procedures in place for the following: 
i. 
checking of qualifications prior to granting employment;  
ii. 
the actions to be taken where qualifications are found not to meet the minimum requirements; 
iii. 
the dismissal of a staff member, or removal of a staff member from teaching duties, where issues are 
subsequently identified regarding qualifications. 
12. The provider must have public, documented policies, systems and procedures in place, utilising a plain 
English approach and clear language that students can reasonably be expected to understand: 
a. refund of student fees and other payments: The policies and procedures for refunds must include 
provisions for refund arrangements for students who withdraw from a programme prior to 
commencement of the programme, shortly post commencement, or during the programme. These 
provisions must specify the maximum time from receipt of a refund request to the issue of a refund 
(this must not exceed two months). In the case of a visa refusal or refusal of entry into Ireland, the 
fees, less any pre-indicated handling charge, must be returned to the student within 20 working days 
of the request being communicated to the provider.  Any portion of fees/administrative charges 
retained by the provider must be advised to the student prior to purchase and must be fair and 
proportionate. The basis for any such deductions must be advised to the student prior to purchase. 
The policy must also set out any circumstances under which the student is not eligible for a refund 
and the name and contact details for the person(s) responsible for operating the refunds system.      
b. punctuality and attendance, including recording of attendance: There must be a clear system for the 
recording of attendance identifying the nominated responsible person(s) and the rules on punctuality 
and penalties for lateness. Such records should be available for inspection by / submission to ISD. 
c. absenteeism and expulsion: There must be a clear system in place for the recording of student 
absences, for which any procedures should describe the steps which are taken and by whom in the 
case of an absent student. This system should identify the person(s) responsible for recording 
absences, their contact information, and any associated procedure as to how a student can have an 
absence recorded as a medical appointment or some other qualification of the circumstances 
pertaining to the absence, i.e. in the context of disciplinary action arising. It must be clear at which 
point in this procedure that steps for expulsion of the student are activated and by whom, with a 
clear description of the actions and requirements at each stage in the warning system.  All standard 
correspondence as part of this process must be retained and be available to relevant internal 
personnel and external authorities on request. Absenteeism and expulsion procedures must be 
implemented in a timely manner, i.e. the disciplinary action must follow immediately after the 
absenteeism issue has been identified by management. It is not acceptable that non-EEA students are 
expelled towards the end of their programmes in relation to issues identified at an earlier point in the 
programme. The disciplinary system which may ultimately lead to expulsion must be clearly laid out 
in writing, including the issue of forfeiture of fees. The disciplinary process must be progressive with 
the student receiving at least two warnings, and provided with opportunities to respond at preceding 
stages before the step of expulsion. The only exception is in the case of a serious incident, for 
example where the student has engaged in violent conduct against staff or students.  The student 
should have recourse to some form of appeal or review and this process should be set out clearly and 
recorded. 
d. 
student sick leave: There must be a procedure for contacting the designated person(s) responsible in 
the provider on the first day of sickness and each day subsequently, together with the instructions 
relating to submission of a doctor’s certificate(s). The procedure regarding absenteeism and expulsion 
must be communicated to, and understood by, students including reference to requirements in 
relation to uncertified sick leave beyond the statutory entitlement. 
                                                          
15   Completion of template available in Appendix A of the Application Form for Additional English Language Programmes.  
10 
 
e. holidays and breaks: No unscheduled breaks will be permissible except in documented cases of 
illness or close family bereavement. Circumstances where these requests may be considered must be 
listed and available to the student. The criteria for accepting or refusing a request must be 
documented and this must include the decision-making process. The name(s) of the person(s) 
responsible must be documented and publicly available. Student holidays and breaks must comply 
with immigration requirements and attendance requirements. 
f. end-of-course exam entry and recording of grades / scores received: The following must be 
documented: 
i. 
the process of evaluation of student achievement based on exit grades / scores, or in the case 
of programmes leading to awards the process of external authentication of exam 
results/grades achieved by students; 
ii. 
the obligations of the student to take the exam and the obligation of the provider to enter the 
student for the exam, i.e. the provider and student must sign an agreement at the beginning of 
the programme stating that the provider will enter the student for the end-of-programme 
exams and that the exams are mandatory. The student will sign the agreement stating that 
they understand the exam is mandatory and agree to sit the exam. The document must be 
available for inspection in respect of each student; 
iii. 
documentary evidence of entering students for the required exams. Exams must be scheduled 
to take place after 25 weeks of tuition have been delivered but within a student’s 8 month 
immigration permission (Students may not be enrolled for longer than 30 weeks);  
iv. 
the name and contact details of the person(s) responsible for the activities under i – iii above. 
The record of grades received must be available on request to students, ISD and relevant internal 
personnel. The relevant data protection permissions should be agreed with students accordingly and 
in line with GDPR requirements. 
g. complaints and grievances: The following must be documented: 
i. 
clear information describing what constitutes a complaint or grievance by a student; 
ii. 
the procedure to be followed by the provider in the event of receipt of a complaint / grievance; 
iii. 
the name and contact details of the person(s) responsible for managing this procedure;  
iv. 
the maximum duration from receipt of a complaint to resolution of the issue; 
v. 
the means of appeal/review where claims are not resolved to the satisfaction of the student. 
13. The provider must not accept payment of fees by cash. Payment must be documented and a receipt 
provided to the student, whether the student is paying for a first programme or is based in the State and 
renewing their student immigration permission.  
 
Please note: Providers must adhere to the policies advised to students, published and articulated in documents 
submitted to ISD. Failure to demonstrate that policies are being implemented to the satisfaction of ISD may 
result in programmes being removed from the ILEP.  
 
 
    Section 5:  Other Conditions  
 
Providers must also comply with any additional requirements imposed by Irish Immigration Authorities or 
Irish Government Departments. 
 
Section 5A16  
Protections for Students 
 
Providers must have arrangements in place for the protection of all students on ILEP programmes in the event 
that a programme ceases prematurely, i.e. financial bonding arrangements for a student to have their unspent 
fees and related costs reimbursed as part of an insurance policy; or academic bonding arrangements where 
the student completes the programme with another provider(s). Learner protection arrangements must cover 
the period from when a student enrols on a programme and pays the relevant fees, until the time the student 
has completed the programme and the end-of-programme exams. Details of the arrangements which will apply 
                                                          
16 Requirements set out in Section 5A do not apply to the designated awarding bodies, technological universities, institutes of 
technology or other bodies granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law. 
11 
 
must be notified to students prior to enrolment/payment of fees and referenced on letter(s) provided to 
enrolled students. 
a. Insurance arrangements must be via a body which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland with the 
individual student being the policy holder. The student must be covered from enrolment through to 
completion of the end-of-programme exam. Students’ details must be communicated to the 
insurance provider once fees are paid. The name of the insurance provider must be set out on the 
enrolment letter and a copy of their policy documentation with clear details of the claims procedure 
must be provided to each student by the insurance provider. 
b. Academic bonding arrangements must not be made with providers with whom there is shared 
ownership or directorship and must take into account the types and levels of programmes to be 
covered. The arrangements must reflect cover of the maximum student numbers with at least two 
other providers i.e. a provider with a maximum capacity of 100 students must have coverage of at 
least 100 students at each of the other two providers included in the bonding agreement. If the 
bonding arrangement is with four or more other providers, each proportion of the maximum 
capacity must be covered by two providers. The arrangements for cover must be clearly set out, 
including possibilities of teaching out students in their current location. Where an alteration or 
suspension of an existing academic bonding agreement will affect another provider(s), they must be 
notified in advance. 
c. Providers participating in the statutory Learner Protection Fund must demonstrate compliance with 
QQI’s arrangements for the Protection of Enrolled Learners (PEL).  
 
All students must be protected, with no gap in cover. Evidence of the learner protection arrangements in place 
must be provided to ISD on request. Such evidence must comprise statements from the relevant financial 
body(ies) in the case of insurance arrangements; letters of confirmation from awarding bodies and/or 
alternate providers in the context of academic bonding arrangements; or confirmation of compliance with 
QQI’s arrangements for PEL.  Learner protection arrangements must be clear and transparent. Details of 
proposed changes to learner protection arrangements must be submitted to ISD for approval. Information and 
records relating to compliance must be supplied to ISD on request. 
 
For handling of advance payments dependent on the visa application process, providers must operate an 
escrow/delayed payment account with a payments institution authorised by a designated competent authority 
under Directive (EU) 2015/236617 or a separate client visa/escrow account with a financial body regulated by 
the Central Bank of Ireland. The operation of the account must be in accordance with the following key steps:  
 
Students pay programme fees in advance of making a visa application;  
 
Funds must remain in this account until the student’s visa application is determined: 
a. If the student confirms the successful visa application, the funds are released to the provider’s current 
account; or  
b. If the visa application is refused, the funds (less any pre-indicated handling charge) must be refunded 
within 20 working days of the decision being communicated to the provider.  
Evidence of arrangements to satisfy this requirement, statements from the relevant financial body(ies) and 
statements/reconciliation reports in relation to the account must be available for inspection and/or provided 
to ISD on request.  
 
Failure to comply with these requirements will result in the provider being removed from the ILEP unless a 
successful appeal is lodged. 
 
 
Section 5B  
Teaching and Learning 
 
1. Providers must enrol no more than 15 students per class, i.e. each student is enrolled for the duration of 
the programme and registered for a specific class. No more than 15 students should either be listed in the 
class attendance list or physically present in a class. Students cannot change programmes, or attend any 
classes other than the one for which they are registered for the duration of the programme. 
                                                          
17 Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015, articles 11(4) and 100 refer to 
competent authorities. 
12 
 
2. Providers must have mandatory attendance requirements of a minimum 85% attendance for all enrolled 
students. The system of taking and recording attendance must be documented and publicly available. 
Where a student has 25% or more uncertified absence in the first six weeks of their programme, this must 
be communicated to ISD. This communication must also set out the provider’s attendance policy being 
applied in this instance, i.e. what measures are or have been taken to address non-attendance. Where a 
student cannot make up attendance to a minimum of 85% before the programme ends, the student must 
be informed that they do not meet the attendance requirements and this fact will be communicated to 
ISD. There is no mechanism permitted whereby students can make up an uncertified absence(s) through 
additional classes, either during or after the end of the programme. 
3. Providers must have documentation which clearly states the number of classroom tuition hours, i.e. a 
minimum of 15x60 minutes per week. This tuition time minimum does not include breaks. The minimum 
programme duration is 375 tuition hours, delivered over at least 25 weeks. 
4. Providers must have a “student handbook” or equivalent document, which is available to students with 
information on the programme, its operation and obligations on the part of the student. The information 
contained in the student handbook must be up-to-date and relevant to the Irish context. 
5. Providers must have a “teacher handbook” or equivalent document, which is available to teachers with 
information on their responsibilities and duties, including a code of conduct and disciplinary measures to 
be taken by the provider. 
 
Section 5C 
Student Services 
 
1. Providers must provide assistance and support to students on immigration-related issues. An employee(s) 
who does not require immigration permission must be available to students in this regard. Administrative 
positions in any management role responsible for non-EEA students, and / or positions with responsibility 
for attendance records and the attendance system must not be filled by non-EEA students. A non-EEA 
student enrolled in a programme of study should not have an employment role within the same provider 
in view of a potential conflict of interest. 
2. Providers must be compliant with Section 67 of the Qualifications and Quality Assurance (Education and 
Training) Act, 2012. In so doing, providers must make information on relevant external accreditations and 
awarding bodies available to students. Where memberships of professional bodies are also listed in public 
materials, the relationship of these to the programme(s) must be made clear. 
3. In respect of each programme listed in the ILEP, providers must publish information in a clear and 
transparent manner that can be verified by the immigration authorities and/or students. This must 
include: 
a. details of all agents with which a recruitment arrangement has been agreed; and  
b. information on fees and all other ancillary charges associated with the delivery of the programme to 
ensure prospective students are made aware of all costs associated with the programme prior to 
enrolment. 
4. Providers must provide students with clear information on health insurance requirements. The cost and 
extent of the insurance must be clear. Where a student pays for health insurance through the provider, 
documented evidence of payment and cover provided by the insurance company must be supplied by the 
provider to the student. 
5. Providers18 must have arrangements in place for the protection of students in the event that a programme 
ceases prematurely, i.e. arrangements for a student to complete the programme with another provider(s), 
or have their unspent fees and related costs reimbursed. Learner protection arrangements must be clear 
and transparent. 
6. Providers19 must operate an escrow/delayed payment account with a payments institution authorised by 
a designated competent authority under Directive (EU) 2015/2366  or a separate client visa/escrow 
account with a financial body regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland for receipt of advance fee 
payments dependent on the visa process. Statements and reconciliation reports in relation to this account 
must be maintained, available for inspection and provided to ISD on request.  
7. Providers must provide students with pastoral care, advice and assistance, e.g. on immigration-related 
issues; with finding accommodation; opening a bank account; gaining access to medical services etc.  
                                                          
18  Requirements set out in full in Section 5A- Protections for students.  
19    Requirements set out in full in Section 5A- Protections for students.  
13 
 
8. Providers must have emergency procedures in place, both during and outside of office hours, including 
emergency contact numbers, which are documented and publicly available to students. 
 
 
Section 5D 
Premises and Related Resources 
 
1. If premises are occupied under lease, providers20 must indicate the duration of the lease and must have 
evidence available (upon request) of the duration of the lease and the name of the property owner(s) with 
whom the lease is held in the business plan. When a lease expires, ISD must be informed of the new lease 
arrangements in place. Where a provider moves or operates from an additional centre, ISD must be 
notified within 5 working days and updated details must be supplied. A Capacity Statement, evidence of 
relevant planning permission, fire safety certification and confirmation of the learner protection 
arrangements in place must be supplied in respect of all centres and locations of the provider.  
2. English language programmes eligible for inclusion in the ILEP must be offered in premises which: 
a) have adequate capacity to deliver the maximum number of programmes offered by the provider to 
the maximum number of enrolled students outlined in the provider’s capacity report; 
b) are fit-for-purpose and have a suitable means of heating capable of maintaining, when required, a 
room temperature of 18.5 C; 
c) have classroom(s) which have: 
i. 
a floor area for seated occupancy of not less than 1.56 sq. meters per person; 
ii. 
at least one window with a minimum glass area equivalent to one-tenth of the floor area, and 
of which at least one part shall open; and 
iii. 
suitable fittings and equipment. 
d) have a room(s) exclusively available to academic staff adequate to the number of staff for the 
preparation of lessons etc.. 
e) have a student ‘common room’ and library facilities adequate for the maximum student numbers. 
f) have a student media / resource centre adequate for the maximum student numbers. 
g) meet national legal requirements to operate as an educational premises, e.g. has relevant planning 
permission, complies with fire safety and health and safety regulations etc..  
h) have appropriate furnishings and equipment adequate for all provision by the provider, based on a 
maximum number of enrolled students as set out in the provider’s business plan. 
3. 
Providers must accurately represent their facilities in all marketing and promotional materials. 
Misrepresentation of facilities may result in a provider being removed from the ILEP.  
 
Section 5E 
Student Profile 
 
1. Providers must have clear, documented admissions criteria for programmes which enable a student to 
successfully engage with the programme, e.g. a placement test which is fit-for-purpose. 
2. Providers must register students for the relevant end-of-programme exam(s) and retain records of exam 
registration and results for a three-year period. Evidence of registration of students for exams must be 
supplied to ISD on request. Failure to register students for end-of-programme exams may result in a 
provider being removed from the ILEP. Providers must ensure students are aware of their obligations to 
sit the end-of-programme exam and that evidence will be required by immigration officers at renewal. 
The letter of completion provided to the student must include the details of the end of programme exam. 
3. Providers must seek to ensure a good linguistic mix in the class, i.e. a multi-cultural classroom and 
students with a variety of mother tongues, and provide a student profile to facilitate language learning 
opportunities as evidenced in the business plan and in the current enrolments. 
4. Providers must ensure student progression across programmes, i.e. a non-EEA student cannot be enrolled 
on a second consecutive programme at the same or lower level than the preceding programme on which 
they were enrolled.  
 
 
NOTE: Any other information required regarding the programme(s), the award(s) to which they lead, the 
awarding body and/or the Irish or EU English language services recognition authority, may be sought by ISD 
                                                          
20  This requirement does not apply to bodies granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law. 
14 
 
from the provider and/or the awarding body and/or the Irish, UK or EU English language services recognition 
authority, as appropriate. This information will inform the decision-making process regarding the inclusion 
of programmes in the ILEP. 
 
Providers must immediately inform, and not later than 5 working days, ISD in the Department of Justice of any 
changes since its previous ILEP application, including, inter alia, changes to ownership, shareholdings, 
directorships, governance, any changes to its status or operations (such as protections for students), staffing 
arrangements or location(s) of provision. Failure to do so, or the provision of false or misleading information, 
will result in the immediate removal of all programmes of the provider from the ILEP unless a successful appeal 
is lodged. Additional documentation must be supplied in respect of changes to records previously supplied and 
on the request of ISD. 
 
The Department of Justice and the Garda National Immigration Bureau (GNIB), reserve the right to seek 
information, at any time, on programmes included in the ILEP, their provision and the awards to which they 
lead. 
 
 
Section 6: Operation of the ILEP 
 
Final Application cycle 
The ILEP is closed to new applicant providers. Application forms for listed providers and submission dates are 
published on the ISD website. After the closing date for the final application cycle it will no longer be 
possible for listed providers to apply for inclusion of additional programmes. However, there is scope to 
remove programmes (and providers) as detailed in these criteria or when a provider has achieved 
authorisation to use the TrustEd education mark. 
 
Providers applying for additional programmes will receive an email confirming receipt of their application, after 
the application submission window has closed. This is purely to confirm the submission has been received as it 
will not have been reviewed at this stage. Only complete and accurate applications received during the 
application submission window will be considered. Incomplete and / or inaccurate applications will not be 
processed and applicants will be notified.  Applications are processed by the ISD staff responsible for the ILEP 
and their findings presented to the ILEP Committee. The Department of Justice will determine which 
programmes are included in the ILEP, and will be advised in its decisions by the ILEP Committee, comprising of 
membership of the Departments of Justice and DFHERIS. Applications and information provided to the 
immigration authorities will be shared with members of the ILEP Committee. The ILEP Committee meet in 
advance of each ILEP update, although extraordinary meetings may also be held as required. 
 
Where an application has been approved in full, the provider will receive an email confirming this but advised 
that students cannot be recruited to those programme(s) until the official ILEP update is published on the 
specified date. Until such time as the programmes appear on the published ILEP, applications for visa/ student 
permission will be refused. As soon as the updated ILEP is published, the provider should check that the 
information contained in its listings are accurate. A programme listing in the ILEP will only be valid until the 
date of cessation of the ILEP.   
 
In the case of unsuccessful applications or applications where some of the programmes were refused, email 
correspondence will issue and the applicant will be provided with an opportunity to appeal the decision of the 
ILEP Committee by lodging an appeal application by email within five working days of the decision being 
communicated.  
 
Applications may be refused or awarded provisional status by the ILEP Committee and either decision may be 
appealed.  Provisional status means that programmes will be listed in the ILEP until the next update. During 
this period, a provider must demonstrate significant improvements to rectify the concerns of the Committee 
which led to the assignment of a provisional status listing. Failure to satisfy the Committee’s concern(s) will 
result in the provider and/or programmes being removed from the ILEP, unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
15 
 
Any additional documents or communication (e.g. emails) received after the five day appeals window has 
passed cannot be considered. In requesting an appeal, the grounds for appeal should be set out in the email, 
along with details of any action plan necessary to remedy the grounds on which the application was refused.  
The appeal application will be examined by senior officials of the two Departments who will review the initial 
findings of the ILEP Committee and any additional information / documentation provided. Applicants may be 
contacted for additional clarification or information where necessary. Where one of the reasons for rejecting 
an application was the failure to provide certain requested information or documents, applicants may provide 
such information or documents as part of the appeal process. However, if the validity of such documents 
cannot be ascertained, or documents are not provided within the five-day appeals window, the application will 
remain refused. Where possible the Appeals Committee will meet in advance of the ILEP update.  
 
Monitoring, Inspections and Investigations 
Monitoring activities are conducted to determine ongoing compliance with ILEP criteria and requirements. 
Monitoring activities can include routine or specific requests for records and information to determine 
compliance with ILEP requirements. The Department of Justice and the GNIB reserve the right to conduct 
unannounced inspections of applicant providers, and providers with programmes included in the ILEP, at any 
time. Such inspections will form part of ongoing monitoring activities to ensure compliance with immigration 
regulations. However, in certain circumstances, an inspection or investigation may take place on foot of a 
complaint, identification of possible non-compliance or other concerns regarding the operation of a provider. 
Information may be shared with DFHERIS and members of the ILEP and/or Appeals Committee. 
 
The following are (non-exhaustive) examples of the type of information sought as part of monitoring activities 
and during on-site inspections: 
 
Provider and ownership / management details including CRO information; revenue number; tax 
clearance certificate; names of directors and principal; and connections with other providers (including 
shared directorships); 
 
Provider capacity details, including inter alia: 
o Number of students (EEA and non-EEA) and completion rates per programme / award; 
o Number of intended intakes and enrolment dates for each programme; 
 
Lease details, evidence of relevant planning permission and fire safety certification; 
 
Teachers’ qualifications documents; 
 
Samples of student enrolment letters and induction materials; 
 
Documentation pertaining to learner protection arrangements;  
 
Statements and reconciliation reports relating to the use of the separate client visa/escrow or delayed 
payment account for holding course fees; 
 
Evidence of registration of students for end-of-course examinations. Evidence of payment of 
examination fees will be sought in this regard; 
 
Records of attendance monitoring and details of warnings and expulsions; 
 
Evidence of progression of students enrolled on a second or subsequent programme; 
 
Records of the handling of refund requests, complaints and grievances; 
 
Documented policies and procedures in place. 
 
A report is produced following an inspection or when instances of non-compliance with ILEP criteria are 
identified. The report is presented to the ILEP Committee for consideration. The same process, as set out 
above for applications, applies to the consideration of the report by the Committee, with an appeal 
mechanism available in the case where the ILEP Committee directs that the provider’s programmes should be 
removed or granted provisional status (described above). In cases where instances of non-compliance with 
ILEP criteria are identified, providers are given notice of the ILEP Committee’s decision to remove programmes 
from the ILEP.  Providers may appeal the ILEP Committee decision (removal of programmes/provider listing or 
granting of provisional status) by submitting an appeal within 5 working days of the decision being 
communicated. The appeal will be considered by the Appeals Committee. 
 
Any additional documents or communication (e.g. emails) received after the five day appeals window has 
passed cannot be considered. In requesting an appeal, the grounds for appeal should be set out in the email, 
16 
 
along with details of any action plan necessary to remedy the grounds which led to the decision to remove the 
programmes/provider.  The appeal application will be examined by senior officials of the two Departments 
who will review the initial findings of the ILEP Committee and any additional information / documentation 
provided. Applicants may be contacted for additional clarification or information where necessary. If 
information or assertions cannot be verified at the time, or documents are not provided within the five-day 
appeals window, the ILEP Committee decision will be upheld.  
 
Removal of Programmes from the ILEP/Suspension of Issuance of Immigration Permissions  
The inclusion of programmes in the ILEP enables providers to seek to recruit non-EEA students to study full-
time in Ireland. Students enrolled on an ILEP programme may reside in Ireland with an accompanying 
concession to take up casual employment in the State, in accordance with stipulated conditions for the 
duration of their studies. It is therefore important to articulate the circumstances under which certain 
programmes of a provider, or a provider and all of its programmes, will be removed from the ILEP. 
 
The primary circumstances under which a provider and / or its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP is 
when the provider or one or more of its programmes no longer meets the criteria for inclusion in the ILEP. In 
all cases, the onus is on the provider to inform ISD in the Department of Justice of any change to its status 
which impacts upon its ability to continue to meet the criteria for inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. 
Failure to inform the Department of Justice of any change in circumstances from its previous or original 
application will result in the removal of the provider and its programmes from the ILEP unless a successful 
appeal is lodged. 
 
The principal circumstances under which a provider and / or its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP, 
and the process which will normally apply in these circumstances, are set out below:21  
 
Basis and process for removal of programmes from the ILEP: 
 
On cessation of the ILEP: All providers will cease to benefit from the rights incurred as a result of a 
programme listing in the ILEP. From that time, only providers with authorisation to use the IEM will be 
permitted to recruit non-EEA nationals to full-time programmes which meet immigration requirements.  
 
Significant failures identified by QQI: Where significant failings of relevance to ISD and ILEP are identified 
during a provider’s engagement with QQI, including through an application for the IEM, this information 
will be shared with ISD, and the provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Where significant failings are identified which affect the ability of the provider to trade, deliver courses 
to students, comply with student protection requirements and/or meet academic standards, the 
provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a 
successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider has ceased trading: All details regarding a provider that has ceased trading will be removed from 
the ILEP within 5 working days. 
 
Provider is no longer offering a programme(s): If a provider has decided not to offer a given 
programme(s), it must inform the Department of Justice immediately, and no later than 5 working days. In 
addition, the provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international 
students associated with the relevant programme(s). 
 
Provider is no longer recruiting non-EEA students to any of its programmes: If a provider has ceased 
offering ILEP programmes to non-EEA students it must inform ISD in the Department of Justice. The 
provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international students 
associated with the relevant programme(s). Where a provider has never recruited students to 
programmes listed in the ILEP or has not recruited students for an extended period of time, all provider 
and programme details will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged.   
 
The English language examining body associated with a programme listed in the ILEP has ceased its 
relationship with the provider: If any English language programme included in the ILEP no longer leads to 
an exam listed in the criteria, the programme will be removed after 5 working days unless a successful 
                                                          
21  Other circumstances may arise, outside those listed, which warrant the removal of a provider and/or programmes from the ILEP.  
17 
 
appeal is lodged.  In addition, the provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of 
all international students associated with the relevant programme(s). 
 
Programme(s) offered by the provider no longer meet the English language programmes criteria: If any 
programme included in the ILEP no longer meets the programme requirements set out in Section 2, the 
provider must inform the Department of Justice immediately. Where it is found that programmes do not 
meet ILEP criteria they will be removed from the ILEP. Where a provider has no other programmes 
included in the ILEP, the provider listing will also be removed after 5 working days unless a successful 
appeal is lodged. In addition, the provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of 
all international students associated with the relevant programme(s). 
 
Providers found to have made false, misleading or incomplete declarations in support of an application 
will be prohibited from having programmes included in the ILEP: The provider and all of its 
programme(s), will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Providers found to have failed to notify ISD of changes since its previous application was submitted: 
Where such changes arise, the provider must inform ISD in the Department of Justice immediately, and no 
later than 5 working days. Failure to do so will result in removal from the ILEP after 5 working days unless 
a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Providers found to regularly permit students to arrive up to 15 minutes late to avoid students being 
marked absent: Where such behaviour occurs regularly, the provider and all of its programme(s) will be 
removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider is shown to have made false or misleading statements in its marketing, advertising or 
promotional material regarding the status/recognition of the provider or  its programmes with regard 
to the ILEP, the TrustEd mark,  or the bodies responsible: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be 
removed from the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged within 5 working days. Where a programme is 
only available to EU/EEA students, this must be clear.  
 
Provider is shown to have made false or misleading statements in its marketing, advertising or 
promotional material: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider allows the use of false information or misrepresentation of facilities, immigration requirements, 
costs and accommodation in marketing, advertising or promoting courses to students, either in 
published materials or by agents: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP 
after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider is no longer tax compliant: Where a provider cannot produce a current tax clearance certificate 
valid for a 12-month period on request, it will normally be deemed to no longer meet the criteria for 
continued inclusion in the ILEP and will be removed after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged. 
 
Provider failed to demonstrate compliance with the ILEP criteria during the course of an inspection, 
investigation or monitoring activity: If a provider fails to demonstrate compliance with any element of 
the ILEP criteria, it will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged. 
 
Provider has failed to demonstrate eligibility to move from a provisional to full listing: If a provider fails 
to demonstrate it has adequately addressed the issues leading to it being designated a provisional listing, 
the provider will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Where a breach of the criteria and requirements has been identified, information will be shared with DFHERIS 
and members of the ILEP and/or Appeals Committee. Providers will be given 5 working days notification of the 
intention to remove a programme(s) from the ILEP. Providers may appeal the decision to remove by lodging an 
appeal application within this 5 working day period. The appeal application will be examined by senior officials 
of the two Departments who will review the decision to remove the programmes and consider any additional 
information supplied by the provider in its appeal application. Any applications / additional documents 
received after the 5 working day window cannot be considered and ISD will proceed with removal of 
programmes.  
 
18 
 
The Department of Justice and the GNIB reserve the right to remove a provider and its programme(s) from 
the ILEP at any time on immigration grounds, once 5 working days’ notice has been served and in 
circumstances where an appeal is lodged, the Appeal Committee upholds the original decision. 
 
 
In addition to the above bases for removal of programme(s) from the ILEP, certain, or all, programmes of a 
provider(s) may be subject to an immediate temporary suspension of issuance of visa / student immigration 
permission for non-EEA students pending the outcome of investigation by the Department of Justice or 
GNIB. Such suspension may occur in the event of the following, inter alia: 
 
notification from QQI of significant and serious failings of the provider; 
 
allegations or concerns regarding serious breaches of immigration rules; 
 
where the stated policies of the provider are not being adhered to, e.g. in the case of attendance 
monitoring and expulsion or the issuing of refunds; 
 
serious disruption to provision on which non-EEA students are enrolled, i.e. more than two consecutive 
days of classes not being provided. In such cases the provider must notify ISD in the Department of Justice 
and confirm plans for the resumption of classes. Such plans must also be communicated to enrolled 
students; 
 
serious concern regarding the ability of the provider to continue trading, e.g. non-payment of staff; non-
provision of refunds to students in the specified timeframe; 
 
where it becomes clear from examination data that students are being accepted onto programmes for 
which they are not academically prepared, or lack the language competency to complete; 
 
where the provider fails to co-operate with immigration authorities, including refusing to co-operate with 
an unannounced inspection; 
 
failure to report in a timely manner incident(s) of student(s) failure to engage with programme(s), [i.e. 
sustained failure to complete course work, attend classes or sit exams]. 
 
 
 
Note: The Department of Justice wishes to remind providers with programmes listed in the ILEP that the 
information provided in the context of previous applications can be reviewed and verified by immigration 
authorities at any time. Providers may be requested to reconfirm information and provide additional 
documents / information in this regard.