1 
 
 
 
  
 
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
IMMIGRATION SERVICE DELIVERY (ISD) 
 
Interim List of Eligible Programmes for Student Immigration Permission 
 
ARRANGEMENTS APPLYING TO FOUNDATION PROGRAMMES  
(updated 21 March 2025) 
 
 
2 
 
Section 1: Introduction 
 
A series of reforms to the student immigration system for international education were implemented in 2015 
in line with the policy statement Reform of the International Education Sector and Student Immigration 
System.1 The Interim List of Eligible Programmes (ILEP) was introduced as a more restrictive list of education 
programmes eligible for student immigration purposes, used as a reference point for Immigration Service 
Delivery (ISD) of the Department of Justice, in considering visa and residency applications from non-EEA 
applicants2 wishing to study on a full-time basis in Ireland.  
 
The ILEP is available here and includes details of programmes meeting specified criteria. The inclusion of 
programmes in the ILEP enables providers to recruit non-EEA students to study full-time in Ireland.  The types 
of programmes included in the ILEP are set out in Section 2. Since 2019, foundation programmes meeting 
specific criteria have been eligible for inclusion.  New overseas accredited/validated programmes or further 
education or vocational education and training programmes are not included.  The ILEP will remain closed to 
new providers.  
 
Existing providers with programmes listed in the ILEP must remain in compliance with the criteria contained in 
this document and immigration requirements to retain an ILEP programme listing. The ILEP is administered 
by the Department of Justice. The Department of Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and 
Science (DFHERIS) has an advisory role in identifying appropriate criteria for the inclusion of programmes in 
the ILEP. 
 
The ILEP was developed as an interim measure, pending the introduction by Quality and Qualifications Ireland 
(QQI) of the International Education Mark (IEM), which was launched in 2024. QQI will award the IEM (TrustEd 
Ireland quality mark) to higher education and English language providers who demonstrate that they meet 
national standards to ensure a quality experience for international learners. Once the TrustEd Ireland 
scheme is fully operational, the ILEP will cease to operate.  Once the ILEP is discontinued, only education 
providers granted authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark will be eligible to recruit students from 
outside the EEA to English language programmes, foundation programmes and higher education 
programmes leading to awards within the National Framework of Qualifications. Information pertaining to 
dissolution of the ILEP and transitional arrangements will be communicated on the Irish Immigration 
website. 
 
Study Visas and Stamp 2 immigration permissions will only be granted in respect of participation in a course 
listed in the ILEP or an eligible full-time course offered by a provider with authorisation to use the TrustEd 
Ireland mark. Whether recruitment is on the basis of an ILEP programme listing or authorisation to use the 
TrustEd Ireland mark, all providers seeking to recruit students from non-EEA countries must cooperate with 
ISD in the Department of Justice and ensure compliance with immigration law. Providers must ensure all 
students, including prospective students, are aware of their immigration obligations. Students will not be 
granted visas or immigration permission in respect of a part-time or online course. Where changes to a 
programme result in the programme no longer meeting programme and/or delivery requirements, non-EEA 
students should not be recruited and the provider must contact ISD to ensure the programme is removed 
from the list. 
 
Where a provider has programmes listed in the ILEP and remains in compliance with ILEP criteria, it may 
continue to recruit non-EEA nationals until the ILEP ceases operation. In April 2025 there will be one final 
opportunity for listed providers to apply for the inclusion of additional programmes in the ILEP. The final ILEP 
                                                          
1 This built on a previous government decision announced by the Ministers for Education and Justice: Regulatory Reform of the 
International Education Sector   
2 The members of the European Economic Area: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, 
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, 
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. These arrangements/regulations apply to programmes 
for students who are citizens from countries other than those listed above or Switzerland. 
 
3 
 
update will be published in June 2025, after which point there will be no further additions to the list. The 
ILEP will then be gradually phased out in line with the implementation of the TrustEd Ireland scheme. To 
remain eligible to recruit non-EEA nationals, providers must gain authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland 
mark.   
 
Providers are referred to QQI’s information page for more information about TrustEd Ireland mark 
requirements, QQI’s TrustEd Ireland quality mark and the application process. Any questions should be 
addressed to the International Education Division at international.education@qqi.ie  
 
A programme listing in the ILEP will only be valid for the duration of the ILEP.  After this time, only providers 
with authorisation from QQI to use the TrustEd Ireland mark will be permitted to recruit non-EEA nationals 
requiring immigration permission to reside here for the purpose of study. Information pertaining to 
dissolution of the ILEP and transitional arrangements will be communicated on the Irish Immigration 
website.  
 
Providers with programmes listed in the ILEP, must apply for, and be authorised to use, the TrustEd Ireland 
mark to continue to recruit non-EU/EEA international students who require study permission or student 
visas.  Providers who have achieved the authorisation to use the Trusted Ireland mark will be eligible to 
recruit non-EEA students to full-time programmes meeting immigration requirements.  
 
Information for students  
A student will be eligible for a Stamp 2 immigration permission for up to 12 months when attending a 
foundation programme listed in the ILEP or a full-time foundation programme offered by a provider with 
authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark.  On completion of the foundation programme, the student 
must progress to the higher education programme for which they have a conditional offer. Students should 
refer directly to the Irish Immigration website with regard to registration requirements and the registration 
process. A detailed set of questions and answers is also available. 
 
 
 
Section 2: Foundation Programme Requirements  
 
Please note: these requirements are without prejudice to any additional requirements or measures that 
may be imposed by the immigration authorities or Irish Government Departments. 
Programmes included in the ILEP are divided into the following categories:  
(a) Higher Education Programmes leading to Major Awards; 
(b) Higher Education Programmes leading to Non-major Awards; 
(c) Professional Awards; 
(d) English language programmes; and 
(e) Foundation Programmes. 
 
Criteria for categories (a), (b) and (c) and for (d) are published on the ISD website. The criteria and 
requirements for foundation programmes are set out in this document. 
 
Definition and interpretation 
A foundation programme is defined as a programme which provides “the formation necessary to enable an 
international student meet the minimum academic requirements (all other things being equal) for 
participation in a higher education programme in an Irish higher education institution and to cope with living 
and studying in Ireland”.3 
 
For the purpose of inclusion in the ILEP, it must be one of the following foundation qualifications: 
                                                          
3 QQI Awards Standards for Pre-Higher Education Foundation Awards For International Students 
 
4 
 
a) QQI-validated Preparation for Undergraduate Programme, leading to NFQ4 Level 5 Special Purpose 
Award 
b) QQI-validated Preparation for Postgraduate Programme, leading to NFQ Level 8 Special Purpose Award 
c) Equivalent awards that are included in the NFQ and validated by an Irish awarding body5 
 
Programmes must be fully validated at the time of the ILEP application. 
 
Subject to the criteria set out in Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this document being met, a foundation programme, 
(as defined in a, b, or c above), is eligible for inclusion in the ILEP if the programme is accompanied by a 
conditional offer from an Irish higher education provider. The higher education provider must offer either 
undergraduate (NFQ Level 8) or postgraduate (NFQ Level 9 or 10) awards validated by one of the following 
Irish awarding bodies: 
o QQI 
o an institute of technology with delegated authority to make awards 
o a university6 or technological university7 in the State 
o National University of Ireland 
o Other bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law8  
 
Where a provider offers both foundation and higher education programmes, it must confirm that it retains 
the places on conditional offer until the student has completed their foundation programme. It must also 
specify the higher education programme associated with the conditional offer. In circumstances where a 
foundation programme provider does not offer higher education programmes, it must submit a 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between it and the provider(s) offering higher education 
programme(s) for which students are being prepared. The MoU must confirm that each student is provided 
with a conditional offer to a specified higher education programme.  
 
Duration, volume and attendance requirements 
Any programme included in the ILEP as satisfying the foundation programmes category must have a duration 
of at least 25 weeks with at least 15 hours classroom tuition each week, excluding breaks. Non-EEA students 
must attend the programme on a full-time, daytime basis, which is defined as students attending between 
the hours of 9am and 5pm on at least four days between Monday and Friday each week. Programmes must 
be delivered fully through in-person classes to best meet the pedagogical needs of students and optimum 
student experience, except where a move to blended or wholly online delivery is in response to Government 
advice or public health restrictions. The programme must be structured and offered in a fashion which 
allows the student to progress to the higher education programme in advance of seeking renewal of their 
student immigration permission.  
 
Publishing information for students 
Providers should not market programmes to students or recruit students to programmes in advance of 
achieving a programme listing in the published ILEP. Programmes must be clearly described in published 
material and in communications with potential students. Information should accurately describe the 
programme content and the aims/outcomes on completion. Students should be informed as to the level of 
programme, progression paths and immigration requirements.  
 
Section 3: Providers listed in the ILEP 
 
A foundation programme, as defined in Section 2, is eligible for inclusion in the ILEP when it satisfies the 
                                                          
4  National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ) 
5 Bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law. 
6 Dublin City University; University of Galway; Maynooth University; Trinity College Dublin; University College Cork; University 
College Dublin; University of Limerick and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI). 
7 These are established pursuant to the provisions of Part 2 of the Technological Universities Act 2018. 
8 For the purposes of inclusion in the ILEP, King’s Inns is considered to be an awarding body. 
 
5 
 
programme criteria set out in Section 2, and is offered by a provider with programmes currently listed in 
the ILEP. The ILEP is closed to new providers. 
 
Providers* with programmes listed in the ILEP must comply with all conditions and requirements set out 
in Sections 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this document in order to retain a listing in the ILEP.   
 
*Recognised Irish awarding bodies9 must comply with the Programme Requirements in Section 2 and the 
‘Other Conditions’ set out in Section 5 of this document. 
 
Provider Ownership 
Where there are changes to the arrangements previously advised to ISD, a revised statement of ownership of 
the legal entity, signed on affidavit10 by an owner of the company/ legal entity, must be submitted. This 
statement must: 
i. 
list all persons who are owners11, beneficial owners*, directors, shareholders, and/or investors in the 
provider, or holding company of which the provider is a subsidiary, including shadow directors or 
persons otherwise having a beneficial ownership of the provider company/legal entity; 
ii. 
set out shareholding arrangements and confirm that all shares held by persons listed as a shareholder, 
or director of a provider are in the name of the persons listed and are entirely at their disposal.  Where 
shares are held in trust this must be so stated, detailing for whom they are held in trust;  
iii. 
provide a declaration as to whether any individuals who hold an interest in the school also act as a 
recruitment agent, and 
iv. 
declare all other shareholdings, directorships or interest(s) held by the listed shareholders and 
directors in other education and training providers in Ireland and in any other jurisdiction.  
 
*For the purposes of this criterion a “beneficial owner” is an individual who benefits from at least 25 per 
cent of the business, (i.e. the provider), where this has been established, i.e.:   
i. 
if the individuals who benefit from the business have been determined, any individual who benefits 
from at least 25 per cent of the business 
ii. 
if the individuals who benefits from the business have yet to be determined, the class of such 
individuals in whose main interest the business is set up or operates, and  
iii. 
any individual who exercises control of at least 25 per cent of the business. 
 
NB: Any individual who is the beneficial owner of a body corporate that benefits from or exercises control 
over the business is taken to benefit from or exercise control over the business. 
 
Failing to make a full and accurate disclosure, or making a false or misleading disclosure, may result in the 
provider and its programmes being removed from the ILEP. Providers who make false, misleading or 
incomplete declarations will be prohibited from having programmes included in the ILEP and /or its 
successor. Providers are obliged to ensure that the information submitted to ISD remains up-to-date and 
are therefore required to communicate any changes of ownership to ISD within 5 working days of such 
changes taking place. Failure to do so will result in programmes being removed from the ILEP unless a 
successful appeal is lodged. 
Section 4: Requirements of Providers12 
 
                                                          
9Designated awarding bodies, institutes of technology, technological universities and other bodies granted statutory power to  make 
awards under Irish law. 
10The Affidavit must be completed in the presence of a person authorised by law to administer oaths, e.g. a Solicitor or 
Commissioner for Oaths.  
11 For the purpose of these criteria, owners are defined here as anyone who has a financial investment or interest in the legal entity. 
An owner may be active or not active in the business, sole, part or co-owner, beneficial owner, shareholder, any person for whom 
shares are held in trust by another person etc.  
12 This section does not apply to bodies granted statutory power to make awards under Irish law. All other providers must maintain 
compliance, particularly where arrangements previously advised to ISD, including the Statement of Ownership are being revised. 
 
6 
 
1. 
All owners, shareholders, directors and managers of the provider must have a sound track record in 
educational provision and of immigration compliance both nationally and in any other jurisdiction. 
2. 
All owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must not have been involved in the last 5 years in 
the ownership of an education and training provider, in this or any other jurisdiction,  which closed 
leaving students disadvantaged, i.e. out of fees or without an arrangement to complete their studies.  
3. 
The provider must not have owners or majority shareholders acting as a recruitment agent. 
Information on individuals who hold an interest in a provider and also act as a recruitment agent must 
be set out in the Statement of Ownership13. 
4. 
Owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must not have been convicted of a indictable 
offence in connection with a  business or a company either in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction; 
5. 
Owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must have never been convicted of an offence 
involving fraud or dishonesty in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction.  
6. 
The provider must have never been the subject of an order under Section 160 of the Companies Act 
1990, as amended14. 
7. 
The provider must comply with all immigration requirements. The immigration authorities must be 
fully satisfied in relation to the continued capacity of the provider to address all aspects of the 
provision of foundation programmes to students. In respect of student data to be provided to ISD for 
immigration purposes, the relevant data protection permissions should be agreed with students  
accordingly and in line with GDPR requirements15. ISD and the Department of Justice do not require 
the provision of biometric data. 
8. 
The owners, shareholders, directors and managers must meet all other national legal requirements, 
e.g. employment regulations. The owners, shareholders, directors and managers must also satisfy all 
immigration requirements.   
9. 
The provider must be tax compliant and remain in good financial standing;16 
10. Changes to leasing arrangements, or the location of the provider or provision must be communicated 
to ISD within 5 working days of such changes taking place. Failure to do so will result in programmes 
being removed from the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
11. The provider must have appropriate administrative staffing arrangements. Administrative positions in 
any management role responsible for non-EEA students, and/or staff responsible for attendance 
records and the attendance system must not be filled by a non-EEA student(s). A non-EEA student 
enrolled in a programme of study should not have an employment role within the same provider in 
view of a potential conflict of interest.  
12. The provider must have the following public, documented policies, systems and procedures in place, 
utilising a plain English approach: 
a. 
refund of student fees and other payments:  The policies and procedures for refunds must 
include provisions for refund arrangements for students who withdraw from a programme prior 
to commencement of the programme,  shortly post commencement, or during the programme. 
These provisions must specify the maximum time from receipt of request for a refund to issue of 
a refund (this must not exceed two months). In the case of a visa refusal, or refusal of entry into 
Ireland, the funds, less any pre-indicated handling charge, must be returned to the student within 
20 working days of the decision being communicated to the provider. Any handling charges/fees 
to be retained by the provider must be advised to the student prior to purchase and must be fair 
and proportionate. The basis for any such deductions must be advised to the student prior to 
purchase. The policy must also set out any circumstances under which the student is not eligible 
for a refund and the name and contact details for the person(s) responsible for operating the 
refunds system. 
b. punctuality and attendance, including recording of attendance: There must be a clear system for 
the recording of attendance identifying the nominated responsible person(s) and the rules on 
                                                          
13 See section 3 for full requirements.  
14 Companies Act 1990 and amendments: http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1990/act/33/enacted/en/html   
15   Further information is available at www.dataprotection.ie 
16 ISD reserves the right to request management accounts and, in certain circumstances, audited accounts from applicants. ISD will 
also liaise with the appropriate authorities in relation to a provider’s broad requirements.  
 
7 
 
punctuality and penalties for lateness. Such records should be available for inspection by / 
submission to ISD at any time.  
c. absenteeism and expulsion: There must be a clear system in place for the recording of student 
absences, for which any procedures should describe the steps which are taken and by whom in 
the case of an absent student. This system should identify the person(s) responsible for recording 
absences, their contact information, and any associated procedure as to how a student can have 
an absence recorded as a medical appointment or some other qualification of the circumstances 
pertaining to the absence, i.e. in the context of disciplinary action arising. It must be clear at 
which point in this procedure that steps for expulsion of the student are activated and by whom, 
with a clear description of the actions and requirements at each stage in the warning system.  All 
standard correspondence as part of this process must be retained and be available on request to 
relevant internal personnel and external authorities. Absenteeism and expulsion procedures must 
be implemented in a timely manner, i.e. the disciplinary action must follow immediately after the 
absenteeism issue has been identified by management. It is not acceptable that non-EEA students 
are expelled towards the end of their programmes in relation to issues identified at an earlier 
point in the programme. The disciplinary system which may ultimately lead to expulsion must be 
clearly laid out in writing, including the issue of forfeiture of fees. The disciplinary process must be 
progressive with the student receiving at least two warnings, and provided with opportunities to 
respond at preceding stages before the step of expulsion. The only exception to this can be in the 
case of a serious incident, for example where the student has engaged in violent conduct against 
staff or students.  The student should have recourse to some form of appeal or review and this 
process should be set out clearly and recorded.  
d. student sick leave: There must be a procedure for contacting the designated person(s) 
responsible in the provider on the first day of sickness and each day subsequently, along with 
instructions for the submission of doctor’s certificate(s). The procedure regarding absenteeism 
and expulsion must be communicated to, and understood by, students including reference to 
requirements in relation to uncertified sick leave beyond the statutory entitlement.  
e. holidays and breaks: No unscheduled breaks will be permissible except in documented cases of 
illness or close family bereavement. Circumstances where these requests may be considered 
must be listed and available to the student. The criteria for accepting or refusing a request must 
be documented and this must include the decision-making process. The name(s) of the person(s) 
responsible must be documented and publicly available. Student holidays and breaks must 
comply with immigration requirements. Front loading of holidays is not permitted. Periods of 
holiday / tuition must be made clear to both the student and immigration officers (where 
relevant) at the point of registration. 
f. end-of-course exam entry and recording of grades/scores received: The following must be 
documented: 
i. 
the process of external authentication of exam results/grades achieved by students; 
ii. 
the obligations of the student to take exams and the obligation of the provider to enter the 
student for the exam, i.e. the provider and student must sign an agreement at the 
beginning of the programme stating that the provider will enter the student for the end-of- 
programme exams and that the exams are mandatory. The student will sign the agreement 
stating that they understand that the exam is mandatory and agree to sit the exam.  
iii. 
the procedure for entering students for the required exams; and 
iv. 
the name and contact details of the person(s) responsible for the activities outlined under i 
- iii above.   
The record of grades received must be available on request to students, ISD and relevant internal 
personnel.  The relevant data protection permissions should be agreed with students accordingly 
and in line with GDPR requirements.  
g. complaints and grievances: The following must be documented: 
i. 
clear information describing what constitutes a complaint or grievance by a student;  
ii. 
the procedure to be followed by the provider in the event of receipt of a 
complaint/grievance; 
iii. 
the name and contact details of the person(s) responsible for managing this procedure;  
 
8 
 
iv. 
the maximum duration from receipt of a complaint to resolution of the issue. 
v. 
the means of appeal/ review where claims are not resolved to their satisfaction. 
13. The provider must not accept payment of fees by cash. Payment should be documented and a receipt 
provided to the student, whether the student is paying in advance for a first programme or based in the 
State and renewing their student immigration permission.  
 
Please note: Providers must adhere to the policies advised to students; published and articulated in the 
documents submitted to ISD. Failure to demonstrate that policies are being implemented to the satisfaction 
of ISD may result in programmes being removed from the ILEP.  
 
 
Section 5: Other Conditions  
 
Providers must also comply with any additional requirements imposed by the Immigration Authorities or 
Irish Government Departments. 
 
Student Services 
1. Providers must provide assistance and support to students on immigration-related issues. An 
employee(s) who does not require immigration permission must be available to students in this regard. 
Administrative positions in any management role responsible for non-EEA students, and / or staff 
responsible for attendance records and the attendance system must not be filled by non-EEA students.  
2. Providers must be compliant with Section 67 of the Qualifications and Quality Assurance (Education and 
Training) Act, 2012. In so doing, providers must make information on relevant external accreditations 
and awarding bodies available to students. Where memberships of professional bodies are also 
published the relationship of these to the programme(s) must be made clear. 
3. In respect of each programme listed in the ILEP, providers must publish information in a clear and 
transparent manner which can be verified by the immigration authorities and/or students. This must 
include: 
a. details of all agents with which a recruitment arrangement has been agreed; and  
b. information on fees and all other ancillary charges associated with the delivery of the programme 
to ensure prospective students are made aware of all costs associated with the programme prior to 
enrolment. 
4. Providers must provide students with clear information on health insurance requirements. The cost and 
extent of the insurance must be clear. Where a student pays for health insurance through the provider, 
documented evidence of payment and cover from the insurance company must be supplied by the 
provider to the student. 
5. Providers17  must have arrangements in place for the protection of all students on ILEP programmes in 
the event that a programme ceases prematurely i.e. financial bonding arrangements for a student to 
have their unspent fees and related costs reimbursed as part of an insurance policy, or academic 
bonding where the student completes the programme with another provider(s). Learner protection 
arrangements must cover the period from when a student enrols on a programme and pays the 
relevant fees until the time the student has completed the programme and the end-of-programme 
exams. Details of the arrangements which will apply must be notified to students prior to enrolment 
/payment of fees and referenced on letter(s) provided to enrolled students. 
a. Insurance arrangements must be via a body which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland with 
the individual student being the policy holder. The student must be covered from enrolment 
through to completion of the end-of-programme exams. Students’ details must be 
communicated to the insurance provider once fees are paid. The name of the insurance provider 
must be set out on the enrolment letter and a copy of their policy documentation with clear details 
of the claims procedure must be provided to each student by the insurance provider. 
b. Academic bonding arrangements must not be made with providers with whom there is shared 
ownership or directorship and must take into account the types and levels of programmes to be 
                                                          
17 Point 5 does not apply to bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law. 
 
9 
 
covered. The arrangement must reflect coverage of maximum student numbers by at least two 
other providers. The arrangements for cover must be set out, detailing the programmes covered by 
each provider and referencing possibilities of teaching out students in their current location. 
Where an alteration or suspension of an existing academic bonding arrangement will affect 
another provider(s), they must be notified in advance. 
c. Providers participating in the statutory Learner Protection Fund (LPF) must demonstrate their 
compliance with QQI’s arrangements for the protection of enrolled learners (PEL). 
Evidence of the learner protection arrangements in place must be provided to ISD on request. Such 
evidence must comprise statements from the relevant financial body(ies) in the case of insurance 
arrangements; letters of confirmation from awarding bodies and/or alternate providers in the context of 
academic bonding arrangements; or confirmation of compliance with QQI’s arrangements for PEL.  All 
students must be protected, with no gap in cover. Learner protection arrangements must be clear and 
transparent.  Details of proposed changes to learner protection arrangements must be submitted to ISD 
for approval. Failure to comply with this criterion will result in the provider being removed from the ILEP 
unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
6. For handling of advance fee payments dependent on the visa application process, providers18 must 
operate an escrow/delayed payment account with a payments institution authorised by a designated 
competent authority under Directive (EU) 2015/236619 or a separate client visa/escrow account with a 
financial body regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. The operation of the account must be in 
accordance with the following key steps:  
 
students pay programme fees in advance of making a visa application;  
 
Funds must remain in this account until the student’s visa application is determined: 
a. If the student confirms the successful visa application, the funds are released to the 
provider’s current account;  or  
b. If the visa application is refused, the funds (less any pre-indicated handling charge) must be 
refunded within 20 working days of the decision being communicated to the provider.  
Evidence of arrangements to satisfy this requirement, statements from the relevant financial body(ies) 
and statements/reconciliation reports in relation to the account must be available for inspection and/or 
provided to ISD on request. Failure to comply with this criterion will result in the provider being removed 
from the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
7. Providers must provide students with pastoral care, advice and assistance, e.g. on immigration-related 
issues; with finding accommodation; opening a bank account; gaining access to medical services, etc. 
8. Providers must have emergency procedures in place, both during and outside of office hours, including 
emergency contact numbers, which are documented and publicly available to students.  
 
 
Premises and Related Resources  
1. If premises are occupied under lease, providers must indicate the duration of the lease and must have 
evidence available (upon request) of the duration of the lease and the name of the property owner(s) 
with whom the lease is held in the business plan.20 When a lease expires, ISD must be informed of the 
new lease arrangements in place. Where a provider moves location or operates from an additional 
centre, ISD must be notified within 5 working days and updated details must be supplied. A Capacity 
Statement, evidence of relevant planning permission, fire safety certification and confirmation of the 
learner protection arrangements in place must be supplied in respect of all centres and locations of the 
provider.  
2. Foundation programmes eligible for inclusion in the ILEP must be offered in premises which: 
a) have adequate capacity to deliver the maximum number of programmes offered by the provider to 
the maximum number of enrolled students; 
                                                          
18 Point 6 does not apply to bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law.  
19 Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015, articles 11(4) and 100 refer to 
competent authorities. 
20 Premises and Related Resources, point 1 does not apply to bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards 
under Irish law. 
 
10 
 
b) are fit-for-purpose and have a suitable means of heating capable of maintaining, when required, a 
room temperature of 18.5 C; 
c) have classrooms which have suitable fittings and equipment; 
d) have a room(s) exclusively available to academic staff adequate to staff numbers for the preparation 
of lessons etc.; 
e) have a student ‘common room’ and/or library facilities adequate for the maximum student numbers; 
f) have a student library / resource centre adequate for the maximum student and programme 
numbers; 
g) meet national legal requirements to operate as an educational premises, e.g. has relevant planning 
permission, complies with fire safety and health and safety regulations etc.; and 
h) have appropriate furnishings and equipment adequate for all provision by the provider, based on a 
maximum number of enrolled students as set out in the provider’s business plan. 
3. Providers must accurately represent their facilities in all marketing and promotional materials. 
Misrepresentation of facilities may result in a provider being removed from the ILEP. 
  
Student Profile  
1. 
Providers must have clear, documented admissions criteria for programmes which enable a student to 
successfully engage with the programme, i.e. a placement test which is fit-for-purpose. 
2. 
Providers must register students for the relevant end-of-programme exam(s) upon commencement of 
their studies and retain records of exam registration and, where possible, results, for a three year 
period. Evidence of registration of students for exams must be supplied to ISD on request.  Failure to do 
so may result in a provider being removed from the ILEP. 
3. 
Providers must ensure non-EEA student progression across programmes, i.e. a non-EEA student can not 
be enrolled on a second consecutive programme at the same or lower level than the first programme 
on which they were enrolled. Upon successful completion of the foundation programme, the student 
must progress to the higher education programme for which they have a conditional offer.  
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:  
Any other information required regarding the programme(s) submitted by the provider, the award(s) to 
which they lead, the awarding body, or the provider may be sought by the Department of Justice from the 
provider and / or the awarding body as appropriate. This information will inform the decision-making 
process regarding the inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. 
 
Providers must immediately inform, and not later than 5 working days, ISD in the Department of Justice of 
any changes since its previous ILEP application, including, inter alia, changes to ownership, shareholdings, 
directorships, governance, any changes to its status or operations, (including learner protection or client visa 
arrangements), staffing arrangements or location(s) of provision. Failure to do so, or the provision of false or 
misleading information, will result in the immediate removal of all programmes of the provider from the ILEP 
unless a successful appeal is lodged. Additional documentation must be supplied in respect of changes to 
records previously supplied and on the request of ISD. 
 
 
 
The Department of Justice and the Garda National Immigration Bureau (GNIB), reserve the right to seek 
information, at any time, on programmes included in the ILEP, their provision and the awards to which 
they lead.  
 
 
  
Section 6: Operation of the ILEP 
 
 
11 
 
Final Application cycle 
The ILEP is closed to new applicant providers. Application forms for listed providers and submission dates are 
published on the ISD website. After the closing date for the final application cycle it will no longer be 
possible for listed providers to apply for inclusion of additional programmes. However, there is scope to 
remove programmes (and providers) as detailed in these criteria or when a provider has achieved 
authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark. 
 
Providers applying for additional programmes will receive an email confirming receipt of their application, 
after the application submission window has closed. This is purely to confirm the submission has been 
received as it will not have been reviewed at this stage. Only complete and accurate applications received 
during the application submission window will be considered. Incomplete and / or inaccurate applications 
will not be processed and applicants will be notified.  Applications are processed by the ISD staff responsible 
for the ILEP and their findings presented to the ILEP Committee. The Department of Justice will determine 
which programmes are included in the ILEP, and will be advised in its decisions by the ILEP Committee, 
comprising of membership of the Departments of Justice and DFHERIS. Applications and information provided 
to the immigration authorities will be shared with members of the ILEP Committee. The ILEP Committee 
meet in advance of each ILEP update, although extraordinary meetings may also be held as required. 
 
Where an application has been approved in full, the provider will receive an email confirming this. However, 
they will also be advised that students cannot be recruited to those programme(s) until the official ILEP 
update is published on the specified date. Until such time as the programmes appear in the ILEP, visa / 
student immigration permission applications will be refused. As soon as the updated ILEP is published, the 
provider should check that the information contained in its listings are accurate. A programme listing in the 
ILEP will only be valid until the date of cessation of the ILEP.   
 
In the case of unsuccessful applications / applications where some of the programmes were refused, email 
correspondence will be issued and the applicant will be provided with an opportunity to appeal the decision 
of the ILEP Committee by lodging an appeal application by email within five working days of the decision 
being communicated. Applications may be refused or awarded provisional status by the ILEP Committee 
and either status may be appealed.  [Provisional status means that programmes will be listed in the ILEP until 
the next ILEP update. During this period, a provider must demonstrate significant improvements to rectify the 
concerns of the Committee which led to the assignment of a provisional status listing. Failure to satisfy the 
Committee’s concern(s) will result in the provider and/or programmes being removed from the ILEP, unless a 
successful appeal is lodged.] 
 
Any additional documents or communication (e.g. emails) received after the five day appeals window has 
passed cannot be considered. In requesting an appeal, the grounds for appeal should be set out in the email, 
along with details of an action plan to remedy the grounds on which the application was refused.  The appeal 
application will be examined by senior officials of the two Departments who will review the initial findings of 
the ILEP Committee and any additional information / documentation provided. Applicants may be contacted 
for additional clarification or information where necessary. Where one of the reasons for rejecting an 
application was the failure to provide certain requested information or documents, applicants may provide 
such information or documents as part of the appeal process. However, if the validity of such documents 
cannot be ascertained, or documents are not provided within the five-day appeals window, the application 
will remain refused. Where possible the Appeals Committee will meet in advance of the ILEP update. 
 
Monitoring, Inspections and Investigations 
Monitoring activities are conducted to determine ongoing compliance with ILEP criteria and requirements. 
Monitoring activities can include routine or specific requests for records and information to determine 
compliance with ILEP requirements. The Department of Justice and the GNIB reserve the right to conduct 
unannounced inspections of applicant providers, and providers with programmes included in the ILEP, at any 
time. Such inspections will form part of ongoing monitoring activities to ensure compliance with immigration 
regulations. However, in certain circumstances, an inspection or investigation may take place on foot of a 
complaint, identification of possible non-compliance or other concerns regarding the operation of a 
 
12 
 
provider. Information may be shared with DFHERIS and members of the ILEP and/or Appeals Committee. 
 
When conducting an inspection the following are (non-exhaustive) examples of the type of information 
sought as part of monitoring activities and during on-site inspections: 
 
Provider and ownership / management details including CRO information; revenue number; tax 
clearance certificate; names of directors and principal; and connections with other providers(including 
shared directorships). 
 
Provider capacity details including inter alia: 
o Number of students (EEA and non-EEA) in previous academic year or 12 month period and 
completion rates per programme / award; 
o Number of intended intakes and enrolment dates for next 12 month period for each programme the 
provider is seeking to include or has included in the ILEP; 
o Number of programmes and award type(s);  
 
Lease details, evidence of relevant planning permission and fire safety certification; 
 
Samples of student enrolment letters and induction materials; 
 
Documentation pertaining to learner protection arrangements;  
 
Statements and reconciliation reports relating to the client visa account or international payments 
holding service operated by the provider for the purpose of holding course fees;  
 
Records of attendance monitoring and details of warnings and expulsions; 
 
Evidence of progression of students in line with conditional offers on completion of the foundation 
programme; 
 
Records of the handling of refund requests and complaints and grievances; 
 
Documented policies and procedures in place. 
 
A report is produced following an inspection or when instances of non-compliance with ILEP criteria are 
identified. The report is presented to the ILEP Committee for consideration. The same process, as set out 
above for applications, applies to the consideration of the report by the Committee, with an appeal 
mechanism available in the case where the ILEP Committee directs that the provider’s programmes should 
be removed or granted provisional status. In cases where instances of non-compliance with ILEP criteria are 
identified, providers are given notice of the ILEP Committee’s decision to remove programmes from the ILEP.  
Providers may appeal the ILEP Committee decision, to remove programmes or grant provisional status, by 
submitting an appeal within 5 working days of the decision being communicated.  
 
 
Removal of Programmes/Suspension of Issuance of Immigration Permissions 
 
As identified above, the inclusion of programmes in the ILEP enables providers to seek to recruit non-EEA 
students to study full-time in Ireland. Students enrolled on an ILEP programme may reside in Ireland with an 
accompanying concession to take up casual employment in the State, in accordance with stipulated 
conditions for the duration of their studies. It is therefore important to articulate the circumstances under 
which certain programmes of a provider, or a provider and all of its programmes, can be removed from the 
ILEP. 
 
The primary circumstances under which a provider and / or its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP 
is when the provider or one or more of its programmes no longer meets the criteria for inclusion in the ILEP. 
In all cases, the onus is on the provider to inform ISD in the Department of Justice any change to its status 
which impacts upon its ability to continue to meet the criteria for inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. 
Failure to inform the Department of Justice of any change in circumstances from its previous or original 
application will result in the removal of the provider and its programmes from the ILEP unless a successful 
appeal is lodged.  
 
 
13 
 
The principal circumstances under which a provider and / or its programme(s) will be removed from the 
ILEP, and the process which will normally apply in these circumstances, are set out below: 21 
 
Basis and process for removal of programmes from the ILEP:  
 
On cessation of the ILEP: All providers will cease to benefit from the rights incurred as a result of a 
programme listing in the ILEP. From that time, only providers with authorisation to use the IEM will be 
permitted to recruit non-EEA nationals to full-time programmes which meet immigration requirements.  
 
Significant failures identified by QQI: Where significant failings of relevance to ISD and ILEP are 
identified during a provider’s engagement with QQI, including through an application for the IEM, this 
information will be shared with ISD, and the provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from 
the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Where significant failings are identified which affect the ability of the provider to trade, deliver 
courses to students, comply with student protection requirements and/or meet academic standards, 
the provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a 
successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Provider has ceased trading: All details regarding a provider that has ceased trading will be removed 
from the ILEP within 5 working days.  
 
Provider is no longer offering a programme(s): If a provider has decided not to offer a given 
programme(s), it must inform the Department of Justice immediately, and no later than 5 working days. 
In addition, the provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international 
students associated with the relevant programme(s).  
 
Provider is no longer recruiting non-EEA students to any of its  programmes: If a provider has ceased 
offering ILEP programmes to non-EEA students it must inform the Department of Justice. The 
provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international students 
associated with the relevant programme(s). Where a provider has never recruited students to 
programmes listed in the ILEP or has not recruited students for an extended period of time, all 
provider and programme details will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful 
appeal is lodged.   
 
Programme(s) offered by the provider no longer lead to an award of a recognised Irish higher 
education awarding body: If any programme included in the ILEP no longer leads to an award of one of 
the awarding bodies set out in Section 2, the provider must inform the Department of Justice 
immediately. The Department of Justice may seek written confirmation of the change of status of the 
programme(s) from the awarding body in question. Where it is found that programmes no longer lead 
to an award of a recognised Irish higher education awarding body they will be removed from the ILEP 
and the provider notified. The provider will also be removed after 5 working days if it has no other 
programmes / awards included in the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged. In addition, the provider 
will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international students associated with 
the relevant programme(s).  
 
Programme(s) offered by the provider no longer meet the foundation programme criteria: If any 
programme included in the ILEP no longer meets the programme requirements set out in Section 2 or 
any other element of the criteria, the provider must inform the Department of Justice immediately.. 
Where it is found that programmes do not meet ILEP criteria they will be removed from the ILEP and 
the provider notified. The provider will also be removed after 5 working days if it has no other 
programmes / awards included in the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged. In addition, the provider 
will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international students associated with 
the relevant programme(s).  
 
Completion by a student of the foundation programme(s) offered by the provider can no longer be 
linked to a conditional offer of an undergraduate (NFQ Level 8) or postgraduate (NFQ Level 9 or 10)  
award of a recognised Irish higher education awarding body: If the foundation programme provider 
can no longer demonstrate a link with Irish higher education provider(s) providing conditional offers to 
                                                          
21 Other circumstances may arise outside of those listed above which warrant the removal of a provider and / or its programmes 
from the ILEP.  
 
 
14 
 
students, the programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful 
appeal is lodged. 
 
Providers found to have made false, misleading or incomplete declarations in support of an 
application will be prohibited from having programmes included in the ILEP: The provider and all of its 
programme(s), will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days, unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Providers found to have failed to notify ISD of changes since its previous application was submitted: 
Where such changes arise, the provider must inform the Department of Justice immediately, and no 
later than 5 working days. Failure to do so will result in removal from the ILEP after 5 working days, 
unless a successful appeal is lodged.  
 
Provider is shown to have made false or misleading statements in its marketing, advertising or 
promotional material regarding its status / recognition or the status / recognition of its programmes 
with regard to the ILEP, the TrustEd mark,  or the bodies responsible: The provider and all of its 
programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.  
 
Provider is shown to have made false or misleading statements in its marketing, advertising or 
promotional material: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider allows the use of false information or misrepresentation of facilities, immigration 
requirements, costs and accommodation in marketing, advertising or promoting courses to students, 
either in published materials or by agents: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed 
from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider is no longer tax compliant: Where a provider cannot produce a current tax clearance 
certificate valid for a 12-period on request, it will normally be deemed to no longer meet the criteria for 
continued inclusion in the ILEP and will be removed after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged.  
 
Provider failed to demonstrate compliance with the ILEP criteria during the course of an inspection, 
investigation or monitoring activity: If a provider fails to demonstrate compliance with any element of 
the ILEP criteria, the provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working 
days unless a successful appeal is lodged.  
 
Provider has failed to demonstrate eligibility to move from a provisional to full listing: If a provider 
fails to demonstrate that it has adequately addressed the issues leading to it being designated a 
provisional listing, the provider and all if its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.  
 
Where a breach of the criteria and requirements has been identified, information will be shared with 
DFHERIS and members of the ILEP and/or Appeals Committee. Providers will be given 5 working days 
notification of the intention to remove a programme(s) from the ILEP. Providers may appeal the decision to 
remove within this 5 working day period by lodging an appeal application. The appeal application will be 
examined by senior officials of the two Departments who will review the initial decision to remove the 
programmes and consider any additional information provided in the appeal application. Any applications / 
additional documents received after the 5 working day window for lodging such documents has passed 
cannot be considered and ISD will proceed with removal of programmes.   
 
 
The Department of Justice and the GNIB reserve the right to remove a provider and its programme(s) from 
the ILEP at any time on immigration grounds, once 5 working days’ notice has been served and in 
circumstances where an appeal is lodged, the Appeal Committee upholds the original decision. 
 
In addition to the above bases for removal of programme(s) from the ILEP, certain, or all, programmes of a 
provider may be subject to an immediate temporary suspension of visa / student immigration permission 
issuance for non-EEA students pending the outcome of investigation by the Department of Justice or the 
GNIB. Such suspension may occur in the event of inter alia: 
 
notification from QQI of significant and serious failings of the provider; 
 
allegations or concerns regarding serious breaches of immigration rules; 
 
15 
 
 
where the stated policies of the provider are not being adhered to, e.g. in the case of attendance 
monitoring and expulsion or the issuing of refunds; 
 
serious disruption to provision on which non-EEA students are enrolled, i.e. more than two 
consecutive days of classes not being provided. In such cases the provider must notify the 
Department of Justice and confirm plans for the resumption of classes. Such plans must also be 
communicated to enrolled students;  
 
serious concern regarding the ability of the provider to continue trading, e.g. non-payment of staff; 
non-provision of refunds to students within the specified timeframe; 
 
where accreditation by an awarding body has been suspended and / or where a provider is subject 
to sanctions by an awarding body and / or where the awarding body is subject to sanctions by the 
relevant external quality assurance body; 
 
where it becomes clear from examination data that students are being accepted on to programmes 
for which they are not academically prepared, or where they lack the language competency to 
complete their programme; 
 
where the provider fails to co-operate with immigration authorities, including refusing to co-operate 
with an unannounced inspection; 
 
failure to report in a timely manner incident(s) of student(s) failure to engage with programme(s), 
[i.e. sustained failure to complete course work, attend classes or sit exams]; and 
 
failure by the provider to comply with the terms of their agreement with the relevant awarding 
body(ies).  
 
 
Note: The Department of Justice  wishes to remind providers with programmes listed in the ILEP  that the 
information provided in the context of previous applications can be reviewed and verified by immigration 
authorities at any time. Providers may be requested to reconfirm information and provide additional 
documents / information in this regard.