1 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
IMMIGRATION SERVICE DELIVERY (ISD) 
 
Interim List of Eligible Programmes for Student Immigration Permission 
 
ARRANGEMENTS APPLYING TO HIGHER EDUCATION  
AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMMES  
(Updated 21 March 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Section 1: Introduction 
 
A series of reforms to the student immigration system for international education were implemented in 2015 in 
line with the policy statement Reform of the International Education Sector and Student Immigration System.1 
The Interim List of Eligible Programmes (ILEP) was introduced as a more restrictive list of education programmes 
eligible for student immigration purposes, used as a reference point for Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) of the 
Department of Justice, in considering visa and residency applications from non-EEA applicants2 wishing to study 
on a full-time basis in Ireland.  
 
The ILEP is available here and includes details of programmes meeting specified criteria. The inclusion of 
programmes in the ILEP enables providers to recruit non-EEA students to study full-time in Ireland.  The types of 
programmes included in the ILEP are set out in Section 2.  Only full-time programmes are eligible. New overseas 
accredited/validated programmes or further education or vocational education and training programmes are 
not included. The ILEP will remain closed to new providers.  Existing providers with programmes listed in the ILEP 
must remain in compliance with the criteria and requirements contained in this document and immigration 
requirements to retain an ILEP programme listing. Where a provider can demonstrate it is acting in line with 
QQI’s Code of Practice and has submitted an application for the TrustEd education mark, this may be taken into 
consideration where practices are found to deviate from ILEP requirements.   The ILEP is administered by the 
Department of Justice. The Department of Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science 
(DFHERIS) has an advisory role in identifying appropriate criteria for the inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. 
 
The ILEP was developed as an interim measure, pending the introduction by Quality and Qualifications Ireland 
(QQI) of the International Education Mark (IEM), which was launched in 2024. QQI will award the IEM (TrustEd 
Ireland quality mark) to higher education and English language providers who demonstrate that they meet 
national standards to ensure a quality experience for international learners. Once the TrustEd Ireland scheme is 
fully operational, the ILEP will cease to operate.  Once the ILEP is discontinued, only education providers granted 
authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark will be eligible to recruit students from outside the EEA to English 
language programmes, foundation programmes and higher education programmes leading to awards within the 
National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ). Information pertaining to dissolution of the ILEP and transitional 
arrangements will be communicated on the Irish Immigration website. 
 
Study Visas and Stamp 2 immigration permissions will only be granted in respect of participation in a course listed 
in the ILEP or an eligible full-time course offered by a provider with authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark. 
Whether recruitment is on the basis of an ILEP programme listing or authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland 
mark, all providers seeking to recruit students from non-EEA countries must cooperate with ISD in the 
Department of Justice and ensure compliance with immigration law. Providers must ensure all students, 
including prospective students, are aware of their immigration obligations. Students will not be granted visas or 
immigration permission in respect of a part-time or online course. Where changes to a programme result in the 
programme no longer meeting programme and/or delivery requirements, non-EEA students should not be 
recruited and the provider must contact ISD to ensure the programme is removed from the list.  
 
Where a provider has programmes listed in the ILEP and remains in compliance with ILEP criteria, it may 
continue to recruit non-EEA nationals until the ILEP ceases operation. In April 2025 there will be one final 
opportunity for listed providers to apply for the inclusion of additional programmes in the ILEP. The final ILEP 
update will be published in June 2025, after which point there will be no further additions to the list. The ILEP 
will then be gradually phased out in line with the implementation of the TrustEd Ireland scheme.  To remain 
                                                          
1 This built on a previous government decision announced by the Ministers for Education and Justice: Regulatory Reform of the 
International Education Sector  
2 The members of the European Economic Area: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, 
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. These arrangements/regulations apply to programmes for students who are 
citizens from countries other than those listed above or Switzerland. 
3 
 
eligible to recruit non-EEA nationals, providers must gain authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark.   
 
Providers are referred to QQI’s information page for more information about IEM requirements, QQI’s TrustEd 
Ireland quality mark and the application process. Any questions should be addressed to the International 
Education Division at international.education@qqi.ie  
  
A programme listing in the ILEP will only be valid for the duration of the ILEP. After this time, only providers with 
authorisation from QQI to use the TrustEd Ireland mark will be permitted to recruit non-EEA nationals requiring 
immigration permission to reside here for the purpose of study. Information pertaining to dissolution of the ILEP 
and transitional arrangements will be communicated on the Irish Immigration website.  
 
Providers with programmes listed in the ILEP, must apply for, and be authorised to use, the TrustEd Ireland mark 
to continue to recruit non-EU/EEA international students who require study permission or student visas.  
Providers who have achieved the authorisation to use the Trusted Ireland mark will be eligible to recruit non-
EEA students to full-time programmes meeting immigration requirements.  
 
Information for students  
A student will be eligible to apply for a Study Visa and/or Stamp 2 immigration permission when participating in 
a programme listed in the ILEP or an eligible full-time higher education programmes leading to an award at level 
6-10 on the NFQ offered by a provider with authorisation to use the TrustEd Ireland mark. Students should refer 
directly to the Irish Immigration website before planning to come to study in Ireland and with regard to visa 
requirements, registration requirements and the registration process. A detailed set of questions and answers is 
also available. 
 
 
 
Section 2: Programme Requirements 
 
Please note: these requirements are without prejudice to any additional requirements or measures that may 
be imposed by the immigration authorities or Irish Government Departments. 
 
Programmes included in the ILEP are divided into the following categories: 
i. 
Higher Education Programmes leading to Major Awards; 
ii. 
Higher Education Programmes leading to Non-major Awards; 
iii. 
Professional Awards; 
iv. 
English language programmes; and 
v. 
Foundation Programmes. 
 
Criteria for categories (iv) and for (v) are published on the ISD website. The criteria and requirements for higher 
education programmes and professional awards are set out in this document. 
 
 
(a) 
Higher Education Programmes leading to Major Awards  
 
Definition and interpretation 
A Higher Education Programme leading to a Major Award is defined as a nationally awarded programme at 
National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ) level 6 or above, which leads to one of the following major awards 
of at least 60 ECTS, made by a recognised national higher education awarding body: 
 
Higher Certificate 
 
Ordinary Bachelor Degree   
 
Honours Bachelor Degree   
 
Higher Diploma 
4 
 
 
Postgraduate Diploma 
 
Masters Degree 
 
Doctoral degree 
  
Subject to meeting the criteria set out in Sections 3, 4 and 5 of this document, a Higher Education Programme 
leading to a Major Award, as defined above, is eligible for inclusion in the ILEP if the programme leads to an 
award made by one of the following Irish higher education awarding bodies: 
o QQI 
o an Institute of technology with delegated authority to make awards 
o a university3 or technological university4 in the State 
o National University of Ireland 
o Other bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law5 
 
The entire Higher Education Programme leading to a Major Award must be awarded by the recognised Irish 
higher education awarding body and offered by the same provider in its entirety in order to be considered 
eligible for inclusion in the ILEP. The programme must be fully validated at the time of application. 
 
Duration, volume and attendance requirements 
Programmes in the Higher Education Programmes leading to Major Awards category in the ILEP, must have an 
associated workload of at least 60 ECTS (or equivalent) credits per academic year and be at least one full-time 
academic year in duration. Non-EEA students must attend the programme on a full-time, daytime, face-to-face 
basis, which is defined as students attending between the hours of 8am and 6pm on at least three days between 
Monday and Friday each week. Programme delivery must be predominantly through in-person classes to 
provide a high quality educational experience for students coming to Ireland, with the exception of instances 
where Government advice or public health restrictions require a move to wholly online delivery.    
 
Internships/Placements  
Students enrolled on courses leading to major awards at Level 7 or above on the NFQ may undertake an 
internship/placement where this forms an integral part of an academic course listed in the ILEP, or an eligible 
programme offered by a provider with authorisation to use the TrustEd mark. It is the responsibility of the 
provider to ensure that the placements are appropriate to the nature and level of the academic programme and 
do not exceed 50% of the total duration of the course. Completion of the placement(s) must count for ECTS 
credits and contribute to the final award achieved.   
 
Providers should assist students in finding placements and, where requested, provide a letter of confirmation to 
the student/employer indicating that the placement forms an integral part of a programme and does not affect 
the terms and conditions of the student’s Stamp 2 permission.  Students on a Stamp 2 immigration permission 
may work more than 20 hours per week in these placements/internships. Students cannot be self-employed as 
part of the placement and working hours and conditions must be in accordance with all applicable regulations. 
The provider should also ensure the international students’ support or welfare needs are addressed for the 
duration of the placement. 
 
 
(b) 
Higher Education Programmes leading to Non-major Awards  
 
Definition and interpretation 
A Higher Education Programme leading to a Non-major Award is defined as a programme at NFQ level 6 or 
above, which leads to a non-major award made by a recognised national higher education awarding body. Such 
                                                          
3  Dublin City University; University of  Galway; Maynooth University; Trinity College Dublin; University College Cork; University College 
Dublin; University of Limerick and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. 
4     These are established pursuant to the provisions of Part 2 of the Technological Universities Act 2018. 
5  For the purposes of inclusion in the ILEP, King’s Inns is considered to be an awarding body. 
5 
 
programmes must be at least 60 ECTS and at least one full-time academic year in duration. 
 
Subject to meeting the criteria set out in Sections 3, 4 and 5 of this document, a Higher Education Programme 
leading to a Non-Major Award, as defined above, is eligible for inclusion in the ILEP if the programme leads to an 
award made by one of the following Irish higher education awarding bodies: 
o 
QQI 
o 
an institute of technology with delegated authority to make awards 
o 
a university or technological university in the State 
o 
National University of Ireland 
o 
Other bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law  
 
The entire Higher Education Programme leading to a Non-major Award must be awarded by the recognised Irish 
higher education awarding body and offered by the same provider in its entirety in order to be considered 
eligible for inclusion in the ILEP. The programme must be fully validated at the time of application.  
 
Duration, volume and attendance requirements 
Programmes in the Higher Education Programmes leading to Non-major Awards category in the ILEP must have a 
minimum associated workload of at least 60 ECTS (or equivalent) credits per academic year. Non-EEA students 
must be attending the programme on a full-time, daytime face-to-face basis, which is defined as students 
attending between the hours of 8am and 6pm on at least three days between Monday and Friday each week. 
Programmes delivery must be predominantly through in-person classes to provide a high quality educational 
experience for students coming to Ireland, with the exception of instances where Government advice or 
public health restrictions require a move to wholly online delivery.   
 
(c) 
Professional Awards  
 
Definition and interpretation 
Providers who have been awarded ‘platinum status’ by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants 
(ACCA) are eligible to apply for the inclusion of their ACCA examination preparatory programmes in the ILEP. 
This is in accordance with the Reform of the International Education Sector and Student Immigration System 
(Government Policy Statement, May 2015). 
 
Other programmes leading to professional awards, and which have a demonstrated academic and immigration 
track record will be considered for inclusion in the ILEP on a case-by-case basis. 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE: For any of the above categories of programmes, providers must ensure programmes are 
listed in the ILEP (or a provider has been granted authorisation to use the IEM) in advance of marketing to 
or recruiting non-EEA students. 
 
 
Note on Overseas accredited programmes 
As outlined by the report6 of the Taskforce on Students Affected by Private College Closures, overseas accredited 
and validated programmes were frequently used as a means of bypassing Irish quality assurance and oversight. 
Overseas accredited programmes are perceived to combine the highest level of immigration risk with the least 
strategic value for international education. Extensive revisions to the statutory framework were made in 2019 to 
facilitate the introduction of the IEM. The ILEP continues to give effect to the May 2015 Government Policy 
Statement. In this regard, no new applications for overseas accredited or validated higher education 
programmes will be accepted by the Department of Justice in this or any other future cycle of the ILEP.  
 
                                                          
6 Report of the Task Force on students affected by private college closures  
6 
 
Publishing information for students 
Providers should not market programmes to students or recruit students to programmes in advance of 
achieving a programme listing in the published ILEP. Programmes must be clearly described in published 
material and in communications with potential students. Information should accurately describe the programme 
content and the aims/outcomes on completion. Students should be informed as to the level of programme, 
progression paths and immigration requirements.  
 
 
 
Section 3: Providers listed in the ILEP 
 
A Higher Education Programme or Professional Award, as defined in Section 2, is eligible for inclusion in the ILEP 
when it satisfies the programme criteria set out in Section 2, and is offered by a provider with programmes 
currently listed in the ILEP. The ILEP is closed to new providers. 
 
Providers* with programmes listed in the ILEP must comply with all conditions and requirements set out in 
Sections 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this document in order to retain a listing in the ILEP.   
*Recognised Irish awarding bodies7 must comply with the Programme Requirements in Section 2 and the ‘Other 
Conditions’ set out in Section 5 of this document. 
 
Provider Ownership 
Where there are changes to the arrangements previously advised to ISD, a revised statement of ownership of the 
legal entity, signed on affidavit8 by an owner of the company/ legal entity, must be submitted. This statement 
must: 
 
i. 
list all persons who are owners9, beneficial owners*, directors, shareholders, and/or investors in the 
provider, or holding company of which the provider is a subsidiary, including shadow directors or persons 
otherwise having a beneficial ownership of the provider company/legal entity; 
ii. 
set out shareholding arrangements and confirm that all shares held by persons listed as a shareholder, or 
director of a provider are in the name of the persons listed and are entirely at their disposal. Where shares 
are held in trust this must be so stated, detailing for whom they are held in trust;  
iii. 
provide a declaration as to whether any individuals who hold an interest in the provider also act as a 
recruitment agent, and 
iv.  declare all other shareholdings, directorships or interest(s) held by the listed shareholders and directors in 
other education and training providers in Ireland and in any other jurisdiction. 
 
*For the purposes of this criterion a “beneficial owner” is an individual who benefits from at least 25 per cent of 
the business, (i.e. the provider), where this has been established, i.e.: 
a. if the individuals who benefit from the business have been determined, any individual who benefits from at 
least 25 per cent of the business 
b. if the individuals who benefits from the business have yet to be determined, the class of such individuals in 
whose main interest the business is set up or operates, and 
c. any individual who exercises control of at least 25 per cent of the business. 
NB: Any individual who is the beneficial owner of a body corporate that benefits from or exercises control over 
the business is taken to benefit from or exercise control over the business. 
 
                                                          
7 Designated awarding bodies, institutes of technology, technological universities and other bodies granted statutory power to  make 
awards under Irish law. 
8 The Affidavit must be completed in the presence of a person authorised by law to administer oaths, e.g. a Solicitor or Commissioner for 
Oaths.  
9 For the purpose of these criteria, owners are defined here as anyone who has a financial investment or interest in the legal entity. An 
owner may be active or not active in the business, sole, part or co-owner, beneficial owner, shareholder, any person for whom shares 
are held in trust by another person etc.  
7 
 
Failing to make a full and accurate disclosure, or making a false or misleading disclosure, may result in the 
provider and its programmes being removed from the ILEP. Providers who make false, misleading or 
incomplete declarations will be prohibited from having programmes included in the ILEP and /or its successor. 
Providers are obliged to ensure that the information submitted to ISD remains up-to-date and are therefore 
required to communicate any changes of ownership to ISD within 5 working days of such changes taking 
place. Failure to do so will result in programmes being removed from the ILEP unless a successful appeal is 
lodged. 
 
 
 
Section 4: Requirements of Providers10 
 
1. 
All owners, shareholders, directors and managers of the provider must have a sound track record in 
educational provision and with immigration compliance nationally and in any other jurisdiction. 
2. 
All owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must have not been involved in the last 5 years in the 
ownership of an education and training provider, in this or any other jurisdiction, which closed leaving 
students disadvantaged, i.e. out of fees or without an arrangement to complete their studies. 
3. 
The provider must not have owners or majority shareholders acting as a recruitment agent. Information 
on individuals who hold an interest in a provider and also act as a recruitment agent must be set out in the 
Statement of Ownership11. 
4. 
Owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must not have been convicted of an indictable offence 
in connection with a business or a company either in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction. 
5. 
Owners, shareholders, directors and/or managers must have never been convicted of an offence involving 
fraud or dishonesty in Ireland or in any other jurisdiction. 
6. 
The provider must have never been the subject of an order under Section 160 of the Companies Act 1990, 
as amended12. 
7. 
The provider must comply with all immigration requirements. The immigration authorities must be fully 
satisfied in relation to the continued capacity of the provider to address all aspects of the provision of 
higher education to students, including related supports.   
8. 
Owners, shareholders, directors and managers must meet other national legal requirements, e.g. 
employment regulations. The owners, shareholders, directors and managers must also satisfy all 
immigration requirements. In respect of student data to be provided to ISD for immigration purposes, 
the relevant data protection permissions should be greed with students accordingly and in line with GDPR 
requirements13. ISD and the Department of Justice do not require the provision of biometric data. 
9. 
The provider must be tax compliant and remain in good financial standing14.   
10. Changes to leasing arrangements or the location(s) of provision must be communicated to ISD within 5 
working days of such changes taking place. Failure to do so will result in programmes being removed from 
the ILEP, unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
11. The provider must have appropriate administrative staffing arrangements. Administrative positions in any 
management role responsible for non-EEA students and/or staff responsible for attendance records and 
the attendance system must not be filled by a non-EEA student(s). 
12. The provider must have public, documented policies, systems and procedures in place, published in plain 
English.  
a. refund of student fees and other payments: The policies and procedures for refunds must include 
provisions for refund arrangements for students who withdraw from a programme prior to 
commencement of the programme, shortly post commencement, or during the programme. These 
                                                          
10  This section does not apply to bodies granted statutory power to make awards under Irish law. All other providers must maintain 
compliance, particularly where arrangements previously advised to ISD, including the Statement of Ownership are being revised. 
11    See section 3 for full requirements.  
12  Companies Act 1990 and amendments: http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1990/act/33/enacted/en/html   
13   Further information is available at www.dataprotection.ie 
14 ISD reserves the right to request management accounts and, in certain circumstances, audited accounts from applicants. ISD will also 
liaise with the appropriate authorities in relation to a provider’s broad requirements. 
8 
 
provisions must specify the maximum time from receipt of refund request to the issue of a refund 
(this must not exceed two months). In the case of a visa refusal or refusal of entry into Ireland, the 
fees, less any pre-indicated handling charge, must be returned to the student within 20 working days 
of the request being communicated to the provider.  Any portion of fees/administrative charges 
retained by the provider must be advised to the student prior to purchase and must be fair and 
proportionate.  The basis for any such deductions must be advised to the student prior to purchase. 
The policy must also set out any circumstances under which the student is not eligible for a refund 
and the name and contact details for the person(s) responsible for operating the refunds system.      
b. punctuality and attendance, including recording of attendance: There must be a clear system for 
the recording of attendance identifying the designated person(s) responsible and the rules on 
punctuality and penalties for lateness. Such records should be available for inspection by / 
submission to ISD at any time.  
c. absenteeism and expulsion: There must be a clear system in place for the recording of student 
absences, for which any procedures should describe the steps which are taken and by whom in the 
case of an absent student. This system should identify the person(s) responsible for recording 
absences, their contact information, and any associated procedure as to how a student can have an 
absence recorded as a medical appointment or some other qualification of the circumstances 
pertaining to the absence, i.e. in the context of disciplinary action arising. It must be clear at which 
point in this procedure that steps for expulsion of the student are activated and by whom, with a 
clear description of the actions and requirements at each stage in the warning system.  All standard 
correspondence as part of this process must be retained and be available on request to relevant 
internal personnel and external authorities. Absenteeism and expulsion procedures must be 
implemented in a timely manner, i.e. the disciplinary action must follow immediately after the 
absenteeism issue has been identified by management. It is not acceptable that non-EEA students are 
expelled towards the end of their programmes in relation to issues identified at an earlier point in the 
programme. The disciplinary system which may ultimately lead to expulsion must be clearly laid out 
in writing, including the issue of forfeiture of fees. It should be communicated to the student in 
language that they can reasonably be expected to understand. The disciplinary process must be 
progressive with the student receiving at least two warnings, and provided with opportunities to 
respond at preceding stages before the step of expulsion. The only exception to this can be in the 
case of a serious incident, for example where the student has engaged in violent conduct against staff 
or students.  The student should have recourse to some form of appeal or review and this process 
should be set out clearly and recorded.  
d. student sick leave: There must be a procedure for contacting the designated person(s) responsible in 
the provider on the first day of sickness and each day subsequently, together with the instructions 
relating to submission of a doctor’s certificate(s). The procedure regarding absenteeism and expulsion 
must be communicated to, and understood by, students including reference to requirements in 
relation to uncertified sick leave beyond the statutory entitlement. 
e. holidays and breaks: No unscheduled breaks will be permissible except in documented cases of 
illness or close family bereavement. Circumstances where these requests may be considered must be 
listed and available to the student. The criteria for accepting or refusing a request must be 
documented and this must include the decision-making process. The name(s) of the person(s) 
responsible must be documented and publicly available. Student holidays and breaks must comply 
with immigration requirements. Front loading of holidays is not permitted. Periods of holiday / 
tuition must be made clear to both the student and immigration officers (where relevant) at the 
point of registration. 
f. end-of-course exam entry and recording of grades/scores received: The following must be 
documented: 
i. 
the process of external authentication of exam results/grades achieved by students; 
ii. 
the obligations of the student to take the exam and the obligation of the provider to enter the 
student for the exam; 
iii. the procedure for entering students for the required exams; and 
iv. the name and contact details of the person(s) responsible for the activities outlined under i - iii 
9 
 
above. 
The record of grades received must be available on request to students, ISD and relevant internal 
personnel. The relevant data protection permissions should be agreed with students accordingly and 
in line with GDPR requirements. 
g. complaints and grievances: The following must be documented: 
i. 
clear information describing what constitutes a complaint or grievance by a student; 
ii. 
the procedure to be followed by the provider in the event of receipt of a complaint / grievance; 
iii. 
the name and contact details of the person(s) responsible for managing this procedure;  
iv. 
the maximum duration from receipt of a complaint to resolution of the issue; 
v. 
the means of appeal open to students should a claim not be resolved to their satisfaction. 
13. The provider must not accept payment of fees by cash. Payment should be documented and a receipt 
provided to the student, whether the student is paying in advance for a first programme/year or based in 
the State and renewing their student immigration permission.   
 
Please note: Providers must adhere to the policies advised to students; published and articulated in documents 
submitted to ISD. Failure to demonstrate that policies are being implemented to the satisfaction of ISD may result 
in programmes being removed from the ILEP. 
 
 
 
Section 5:  Other Conditions  
 
Providers must also comply with any additional requirements imposed by the Immigration Authorities or Irish 
Government Departments. 
 
 
Student Services 
 
1. 
Providers must provide assistance and support to students on immigration-related issues. An employee(s) 
who does not require immigration permission must be available to students in this regard. Administrative 
positions in any management role responsible for non-EEA students, and / or positions responsible for 
attendance records and the attendance system must not be filled by non-EEA students.  
2. 
Providers must be compliant with Section 67 of the Qualifications and Quality Assurance (Education and 
Training) Act, 2012. In so doing, providers must make information on relevant external accreditations and 
awarding bodies available to students. Where memberships of professional bodies are also published, the 
relationship of these to the programme(s) must be made clear. 
3. In respect of each programme listed in the ILEP, providers must publish information in a clear and 
transparent manner which can be verified by the immigration authorities and / or students. This must 
include: 
a. details of all agents with which a recruitment arrangement has been agreed; and  
b. information on fees and all other ancillary charges associated with the delivery of the programme to 
ensure prospective students are made aware of all costs associated with the programme prior to 
enrolment. 
4. 
Providers must provide students with clear information on health insurance requirements. The cost and 
extent of the insurance must be clear. Where a student pays for health insurance through the provider, 
documented evidence of payment and cover must be supplied by the provider from the insurance company 
to the student. 
5. 
Providers15 must have arrangements in place for the protection of all students on ILEP programmes in the 
event that a programme ceases prematurely, i.e. financial bonding arrangements for a student to have their 
unspent fees and related costs reimbursed as part of an insurance policy, or academic bonding 
                                                          
15 Point 5 does not apply to bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law.  
10 
 
arrangements where the student completes the programme with another provider(s). Learner protection 
arrangements must cover the period from when a student enrols on a programme and pays the relevant 
fees until the student has completed the programme and final exams. Details of the arrangements which 
will apply must be notified to students prior to enrolment/payment of fees and referenced on letters 
provided to enrolled students.  
a. Insurance arrangements must be via a body which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland with 
the individual student being the policy holder. The student must be covered from enrolment to 
completion of final exams. Students’ details must be communicated to the insurance provider once 
fees are paid. The name of the insurance provider must be set out on the enrolment letter and a copy 
of their policy documentation with clear details of the claims procedure must be provided to each 
student by the insurance provider. 
b. Academic bonding arrangements must not be made with providers with whom there is shared 
ownership or directorship. Academic bonding arrangements must take into account the types and 
levels of programmes offered, covering maximum student numbers on each programme by least 
two other providers. The arrangements for cover must be clearly set out, detailing the programmes 
covered by each provider and referencing possibilities of teaching out students in their current 
location. Where an alteration or suspension of an existing academic bonding arrangement will affect 
another provider(s), they must be notified in advance. 
c. Providers participating in the statutory Learner Protection Fund (LPF) must demonstrate their 
compliance with QQI’s arrangements for the protection of enrolled learners (PEL). 
Evidence of the learner protection arrangements in place must be provided to ISD on request. Such evidence 
must comprise statements from the relevant financial body(ies) in the case of financial bonding 
arrangements; letters of confirmation from awarding bodies and/or alternate providers in the context of 
academic bonding arrangements; or confirmation of compliance with QQI’s arrangements for PEL.  All 
students must be protected, with no gap in cover.  Learner protection arrangements must be clear and 
transparent.  Details of proposed changes to learner protection arrangements must be submitted to ISD for 
approval. Failure to comply with this criterion will result in the provider being removed from the ILEP unless a 
successful appeal is lodged. 
6. For handling of advance fee payments dependent on the visa application process, providers16 must operate 
an escrow/delayed payment account with a payments institution authorised by a designated competent 
authority under Directive (EU) 2015/236617 or a separate client visa/escrow account with a financial body 
regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. The operation of the account must be in accordance with the 
following key steps:  
 
Students pay programme fees in advance of making a visa application;  
 
Funds must remain in this account until the student’s visa application is determined: 
a. If the student confirms the successful visa application, the funds are released to the provider’s 
current account;  or  
b. If the visa application is refused, the funds (less any pre-indicated handling charge) must be 
refunded within 20 working days of the decision being communicated to the provider.  
Evidence of arrangements to satisfy this requirement, statements from the relevant financial body(ies) and 
statements/reconciliation reports in relation to the account must be available for inspection and/or 
provided to ISD on request. Failure to comply with this criterion will result in the provider being removed 
from the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
7. 
Providers must provide students with pastoral care, advice and assistance, e.g. on immigration-related 
issues; with finding accommodation; opening a bank account; gaining access to medical services etc. 
8. 
Providers must have emergency procedures in place, both during and outside of office hours, including 
emergency contact numbers, which are documented and publicly available. 
 
 
                                                          
16 Point 6 does not apply to bodies that have been granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law.  
17 Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015, articles 11(4) and 100 refer to 
competent authorities. 
11 
 
Premises and Related Resources 
 
1. 
If premises are occupied under lease, providers 18 must indicate the duration of the lease and must have 
evidence available (upon request) of the duration of the lease and the name of the property owner(s) with 
whom the lease is held in the business plan. When a lease expires, ISD must be informed of the new lease 
arrangements in place. Where a provider moves or operates from an additional centre, ISD must be notified 
within 5 working days and updated details must be supplied. A Capacity Statement, evidence of relevant 
planning permission, fire safety certification and confirmation of the learner protection arrangements in 
place must be supplied in respect of all centres and locations of the provider. 
2. Higher education programmes and Professional Awards eligible for inclusion in the ILEP must be offered in 
premises which: 
a) have adequate capacity to deliver the maximum number of programmes offered by the provider to 
the maximum number of enrolled students; 
b) are fit-for-purpose and have a suitable means of heating capable of maintaining, when required, a 
room temperature of 18.5 C; 
c) have classrooms which have suitable fittings and equipment; 
d) have a room(s) exclusively available to academic staff adequate to staff numbers for the 
preparation of lessons etc.; 
e) have a student ‘common room’ and/or library facilities adequate for the maximum student 
numbers; 
f) have a student library / resource centre adequate for the maximum student numbers and 
programmes; 
g) meet national legal requirements to operate as an educational premises, e.g. has relevant planning 
permission, complies with fire safety and health and safety regulations etc.; and 
h) have appropriate furnishings and equipment adequate for all provision by the provider, based on a 
maximum number of enrolled students as set out in the provider’s business plan. 
3. Providers must accurately represent their facilities in all marketing and promotional materials. 
Misrepresentation of facilities may result in a provider being removed from the. 
 
 
Student Profile  
 
1. Providers must have clear, documented admissions criteria for programmes which enable a student to 
successfully engage with the programme, i.e. a placement test which is fit-for-purpose; 
2. Providers must register students for the relevant end-of-programme exam(s) upon commencement of their 
studies and retain records of exam registration and, where possible, results, for a three year period. 
Evidence of registration of students must be supplied to ISD on request. Failure to do so may result in a 
provider being removed from the ILEP; 
3. Providers must ensure non-EEA student progression across programmes, i.e. a non-EEA student cannot be 
enrolled on a second consecutive programme at the same or lower NFQ level than the first programme on 
which they were enrolled.  
 
 
 
NOTE: 
Any other information required regarding the programme(s) submitted by the provider, the award(s) to which 
they lead, the awarding body, or the provider may be sought by the Department of Justice as appropriate. This 
information will inform the decision-making process regarding the inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. 
 
Providers must immediately inform, and not later than 5 working days, ISD in the Department of Justice of any 
changes since its previous ILEP application, including, inter alia, changes to ownership, shareholdings, 
                                                          
18 This requirement does not apply to bodies granted the statutory power to make awards under Irish law. 
12 
 
directorships, governance, any changes to its status or operations (such as learner protection or client visa 
arrangements), staffing arrangements or location(s) of provision. Failure to do so, or the provision of false or 
misleading information, will result in the immediate removal of all programmes of the provider from the ILEP 
unless a successful appeal is lodged. Additional documentation must be supplied in respect of changes to 
records previously supplied and on the request of ISD. 
 
The Department of Justice and the Garda National Immigration Bureau (GNIB) reserve the right to seek 
information, at any time, on programmes included in the ILEP, their provision and the awards to which they 
lead. 
 
 
 
Section 6: Operation of the ILEP 
 
Final Application cycle 
The ILEP is closed to new applicant providers. Application forms for listed providers and submission dates are 
published on the ISD website. After the closing date for the final application cycle it will no longer be 
possible for listed providers to apply for inclusion of additional programmes. However, there is scope to 
remove programmes (and providers) as detailed in these criteria or when a provider has achieved authorisation 
to use the TrustEd Ireland mark. 
 
Providers applying for additional programmes will receive an email confirming receipt of their application, after 
the application submission window has closed. This is purely to confirm the submission has been received as it 
will not have been reviewed at this stage. Only complete and accurate applications received during the 
application submission window will be considered. Incomplete and / or inaccurate applications will not be 
processed and applicants will be notified.  Applications are processed by the ISD staff responsible for the ILEP 
and their findings presented to the ILEP Committee. The Department of Justice will determine which 
programmes are included in the ILEP, and will be advised in its decisions by the ILEP Committee, comprising of 
membership of the Departments of Justice and DFHERIS. Applications and information provided to the 
immigration authorities will be shared with members of the ILEP Committee. The ILEP Committee meet in 
advance of each ILEP update, although extraordinary meetings may also be held as required. 
 
Where an application has been approved in full, the provider will receive an email confirming this and notified 
that students cannot be recruited to programme(s) until the ILEP update is published on the specified date. Until 
such time as the programmes appear in the ILEP, visa / student immigration permission applications will be 
refused. As soon as the updated ILEP is published, the provider should check that the information contained in 
its listings are accurate. A programme listing in the ILEP will only be valid until the date of cessation of the ILEP.   
 
In the case of unsuccessful applications / applications where some of the programmes were refused, email 
correspondence will issue and the applicant will be provided with an opportunity to appeal the decision of the 
ILEP Committee by lodging an appeal application by email within 5 working days of the decision being 
communicated. Applications may be refused or awarded provisional status by the ILEP Committee and either 
decision may be appealed. [Provisional status means that programmes will be listed in the ILEP until the next 
update. During this period, a provider must demonstrate significant improvements to rectify the concerns of the 
Committee which led to the assignment of a provisional status listing. Failure to satisfy the Committee’s 
concern(s) will result in the provider and/or programmes being removed from the ILEP, unless a successful appeal 
is lodged.] 
 
Any additional documents or communication (e.g. emails) received after the five day appeals window has passed 
cannot be considered. In requesting an appeal, the grounds for appeal should be set out in the email, along with 
details of any action plan necessary to remedy the grounds on which the application was refused.  The appeal 
application will be examined by senior officials of the two Departments who will review the initial findings of the 
13 
 
ILEP Committee and any additional information / documentation provided. Applicants may be contacted for 
additional clarification or information where necessary. Where one of the reasons for rejecting an application 
was the failure to provide certain requested information or documents, applicants may provide such information 
or documents as part of the appeal process. However, if the validity of such documents cannot be ascertained, 
or documents are not provided within the five-day appeals window, the application will remain refused.  Where 
possible the Appeals Committee will meet in advance of the ILEP update..  
 
Monitoring, Inspections and Investigations 
Monitoring activities are conducted to determine ongoing compliance with ILEP criteria and requirements. 
Monitoring activities can include routine or specific requests for records and information to determine 
compliance with ILEP requirements. The Department of Justice and the GNIB reserve the right to conduct 
unannounced inspections of applicant providers, and providers with programmes included in the ILEP, at any 
time. Such inspections will form part of ongoing monitoring activities to ensure compliance with immigration 
regulations. However, in certain circumstances, an inspection or investigation may take place on foot of a 
complaint, identification of possible non-compliance or other concerns regarding the operation of a provider. 
Information may be shared with DFHERIS and members of the ILEP and/or Appeals Committee. 
 
When conducting an inspection the following are (non-exhaustive) examples of the type of information that may 
be sought as part of monitoring activities and during on-site inspections: 
 
Provider and ownership / management details including CRO information; revenue number; tax 
clearance certificate; names of directors and principal; and connections with other providers(including 
shared directorships). 
 
Provider capacity details including inter alia: 
o Number of students (Irish, EEA and non-EEA) and completion rates per programme / award; 
o Number of intended intakes and enrolment dates for next 12 month period for each programme the 
provider is seeking to include or has included in the ILEP; 
o Number of programmes and award type(s); 
 
Lease details, evidence of relevant planning permission and fire safety certification; 
 
Samples of student enrolment letters and induction materials; 
 
Documentation pertaining to learner protection arrangements;  
 
Statements and reconciliation reports relating to the client visa account or international payments 
holding service operated by the provider for the purpose of holding course fees;  
 
Records of attendance monitoring and details of warnings and expulsions; 
 
Records of the handling of refund requests; and complaints and grievances; 
 
Documented policies and procedures in place. 
 
A report is produced following an inspection or when instances of non-compliance with ILEP criteria are 
identified. The report is presented to the ILEP Committee for consideration. The same process, as set out above 
for applications, applies to the consideration of the report by the Committee, with an appeal mechanism 
available in the case where the ILEP Committee directs that the provider’s programmes should be removed or 
granted provisional status. In cases where instances of non-compliance with ILEP criteria are identified, 
providers are given notice of the ILEP Committee’s decision to remove programmes from the ILEP.  Providers 
may appeal the ILEP Committee decision, to remove programmes or grant provisional status, by submitting an 
appeal within 5 working days of the decision being communicated.  
 
 
Removal of Programmes/Suspension of Issuance of Immigration Permissions 
 
As identified above, the inclusion of programmes in the ILEP enables providers to seek to recruit non-EEA 
students to study full-time in Ireland. Students enrolled on an ILEP programme may reside in Ireland with an 
accompanying concession to take up casual employment in the State, in accordance with stipulated conditions 
for the duration of their studies. It is therefore important to articulate the circumstances under which certain 
14 
 
programmes of a provider, or a provider and all of its programmes, can be removed from the ILEP. 
 
The primary circumstances under which a provider and / or its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP is 
when the provider or one or more of its programmes no longer meets the criteria for inclusion in the ILEP. In all 
cases, the onus is on the provider to inform ISD in the Department of Justice of any change to its status which 
impacts upon its ability to continue to meet the criteria for inclusion of programmes in the ILEP. Failure to 
inform the Department of Justice of any change in circumstances from its previous or original application will 
result in the removal of the provider and its programmes from the ILEP unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
 
The principal circumstances under which a provider and / or its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP, 
and the process which will normally apply in these circumstances, are set out below:19  
 
Basis and process for removal of Higher Education and Professional Programmes from the ILEP: 
 
 
On cessation of the ILEP: All providers will cease to benefit from the rights incurred as a result of a 
programme listing in the ILEP. From that time, only providers with authorisation to use the IEM will be 
permitted to recruit non-EEA nationals to full-time programmes which meet immigration requirements.  
 
Significant failures identified by QQI: Where significant failings of relevance to ISD and ILEP are identified 
during a provider’s engagement with QQI, including through an application for the IEM, this information 
will be shared with ISD, and the provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Where significant failings are identified which affect the ability of the provider to trade, deliver courses to 
students, comply with student protection requirements and/or meet academic standards, the provider 
and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged. 
 
Provider has ceased trading: All details regarding a provider that has ceased trading will be removed from 
the ILEP within 5 working days. 
 
Provider is no longer offering a programme(s): If a provider has decided not to offer a given programme(s), 
it must inform the Department of Justice immediately, and no later than 5 working days. In addition, the 
provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international students associated 
with the relevant programme(s). 
 
Provider is no longer recruiting non-EEA students to any of its programmes: If a provider has ceased 
offering ILEP programmes to non-EEA students it must inform the Department of Justice. The provider 
will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international students associated with 
the relevant programme(s). Where a provider has never recruited students to programmes listed in the 
ILEP or has not recruited students for an extended period of time, all provider and programme details will 
be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Programme(s) offered by the provider no longer lead to an award of a recognised Irish higher education 
awarding body or the provider no longer has ACCA platinum status: If any programme included in the ILEP 
no longer meets the programme requirements set out in Section 2, or the provider no longer has ACCA 
platinum status, the provider must inform the Department of Justice immediately. The Department of 
Justice may seek written confirmation of the change of status of the programme(s) from the awarding body 
in question. Where it is found that programmes/professional awards do not meet ILEP criteria they will 
be removed from the ILEP and the provider notified. If a provider has no other programmes/awards 
included in the ILEP, the provider listing will also be removed after 5 working days unless a successful 
appeal is lodged. In addition, the provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all 
international students associated with the relevant programme(s). 
 
Programme(s) offered by the provider no longer meet the higher education programmes criteria: If any 
                                                          
19  Other circumstances may arise, outside of those listed above, which warrant the removal of a provider and/or its programmes 
from the ILEP. 
15 
 
programme included in the ILEP no longer meets the programme requirements set out in Section 2, the 
onus is on the provider to inform ISD. Where it is found that programmes do not meet ILEP criteria they 
will be removed from the ILEP and the provider notified. If a provider has no other programmes/awards 
included in the ILEP, the provider listing will be removed after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged. The provider will be required to provide information regarding the status of all international 
students associated with the relevant programme(s). 
 
Providers found to have made false, misleading or incomplete declarations in support of an application 
will be prohibited from having programmes included in the ILEP: The provider and all of its programme(s), 
will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Providers found to have failed to notify ISD of changes since its previous application was submitted: 
Where such changes arise, the provider must inform the Department of Justice immediately, and no later 
than 5 working days. Failure to do so will result in removal from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a 
successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Provider is shown to have made false or misleading statements in its marketing, advertising or 
promotional material regarding its status / recognition or the status / recognition of its programmes with 
regard to the ILEP, the TrustEd mark,  or the bodies responsible: The provider and all of its programme(s) 
will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is lodged. Where a 
programme is not available to non-EEA students, this must be made clear. 
 
Provider is shown to have made false or misleading statements in its marketing, advertising or 
promotional material: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider allows the use of false information or misrepresentation of facilities, immigration requirements, 
costs and accommodation in marketing, advertising or promoting courses to students, either in published 
materials or by agents: The provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 
working days unless a successful appeal is lodged.   
 
Provider is no longer tax compliant: Where a provider cannot produce a current tax clearance certificate 
valid for a 12-month period on request, it will normally be deemed to no longer meet the criteria for 
continued inclusion in the ILEP and will be removed after 5 working days unless a successful appeal is 
lodged. 
 
Provider failed to demonstrate compliance with the ILEP criteria during the course of an inspection 
investigation or monitoring activity: If a provider fails to demonstrate compliance with any element of the 
ILEP criteria, the provider and all of its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days 
unless a successful appeal application is lodged. 
 
Provider has failed to demonstrate eligibility to move from a provisional to full listing: If a provider fails to 
demonstrate that it has adequately addressed the issues leading to it being designated a provisional listing, 
the provider and all if its programme(s) will be removed from the ILEP after 5 working days unless a 
successful appeal is lodged. 
 
Where a breach of the criteria and requirements has been identified, information will be shared with DFHERIS 
and members of the ILEP and/or Appeals Committee. Providers will be given 5 working days notification of the 
intention to remove a programme(s) from the ILEP. Providers may appeal the decision to remove within this 5 
working day period by lodging an appeal application. The appeal application will be examined by senior officials 
of the two Departments who will review the initial decision to remove programmes and consider any additional 
information provided in the appeal application. Any applications / additional documents received after the 5 
working day window for lodging such documents has passed cannot be considered and ISD will proceed with 
removal of programmes.   
 
 
The Department of Justice and the GNIB reserve the right to remove a provider and their programme(s) from 
the ILEP at any time on immigration grounds, once 5 working days’ notice has been served and in circumstances 
16 
 
where an appeal is lodged, the Appeal Committee upholds the original decision. 
 
 
 
In addition to the above bases for removal of programme(s) from the ILEP, certain, or all, programmes of a 
provider may be subject to an immediate temporary suspension of visa issuance / student immigration 
permission for non- EEA students pending the outcome of investigation by the Department of Justice or the 
GNIB. Such suspension may occur in the event of inter alia: 
 
 
notification from QQI of significant and serious failings of the provider; 
 
allegations or concerns regarding serious breaches of immigration rules; 
 
where the stated policies of the provider are not being adhered to e.g. in the issuing of refunds; 
 
serious disruption to provision on which non-EEA students are enrolled, i.e. more than two consecutive days 
of classes not being provided. In such cases the provider must notify the Department of Justice and confirm 
plans for the resumption of classes. Such plans must also be communicated to enrolled students; 
 
serious concern regarding the ability of the provider to continue trading, e.g. non-payment of staff; non-
provision of refunds to students within the specified timeframe; 
 
where accreditation by an awarding body has been suspended and / or where a provider is subject to 
sanctions by an awarding body and / or where the awarding body is subject to sanctions by the relevant 
external quality assurance body; 
 
where it becomes clear from examination data that students are being accepted on programmes for which 
they are not academically prepared, or they lack the language competency to complete; 
 
where the provider fails to co-operate with immigration authorities, including refusing to co-operate with 
an unannounced inspection; 
 
failure to report in a timely manner to incident(s) of student(s) failure to engage with programme(s), [i.e. 
sustained failure to complete course work, attend classes or sit exams]; and 
 
failure by the provider to comply with the terms of their agreement with the relevant awarding body(ies). 
 
 
 
 
Note: The Department of Justice wishes to remind providers with programmes listed in the ILEP that the 
information provided in the context of previous applications can be reviewed and verified by immigration 
authorities at any time. Providers may be requested to reconfirm information and provide additional documents 
/ information in this regard.